i----------------------------------------	
iThis old house	
iMarch 31st, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iI'm standing in an empty room facing a large bow window stretching	
ifrom the rough wooden floor to a rounded arching top. There is	
isome dust and dirt in the corners and fallen between the floor	
iboards gapping slightly with age. To my right is a door to the	
ihallway and eventually roof access. Behind me a closet holds shoe	
iboxes of memories.	
i	
iI know the layout of this place intimitely, though I've never	
ireally been there. It doesn't really exist. In a sense it is my	
imemory palace [0]. In another sense, it is like the Hi'ngwikan of	
ithe Lenape people and I am its a-la-pa-cte [1]. It is a private	
iplace of prayer and solitude where I can organize my thoughts and	
iintentions.	
i	
0[0] Method of loci	/Method of loci	gopherpedia.com	70
h[1] Lenape "Big House" Ceremony	URL:http://bit.ly/2GmQwgt
i	
iI don't remember the first time I went there, but I do remember	
ithat it started with that window. I can still count the panes of	
iglass, see the smudges of fingerprints I've left, note the	
iimperfections in the glass as it distorts my view. These details	
igive it permanence that I find vital. Knowing the texture of the	
iwood gives me a comfort that I need to let myself be free. It is	
ithrough that freedom that I find peace.	
i	
i                           - - - - -	
i	
iEarlier today vilmibm posted [2] about what home means to him, and	
ihow he is able to find it digitally by just finding a quite space	
iand connecting to his familiar tools, music, and communities.	
iI love that sentiment. I have anxiety over the question of "where	
iis home" or "where are you from". I could probably blame the Roma	
iheritage but that feels like cheating. In reality, I just don't	
iassociate a physical place with home at all. Though I might wish	
ian online community or my digital environment to become home like	
ivilmibm has found, I don't think that fits me either.	
i	
0[2] vilmibm's feels (2018-03-30)	/~vilmibm/feels/20180330.txt	tilde.town	70
i	
iNo, my home is a dusty old house with a big bow window that always	
ihas a different view when I look through it. I know where I keep	
ithe memories of relationships past (in that closet on the bottom	
ishelf in a white shoebox), and I know that when I get really sad	
iI need to go out onto the rooftop garden and greenhouse and let	
ithe light pour into me. 	
i	
i                           - - - - -	
i	
iTonight I felt some of that sadness coming on. At first I thought	
iit might mean I was going to have a good evening writing (it's	
imuch easier for me to write when depressed) but I felt it take	
ia sour turn in my mind. So, instead of wallowing I spent a little	
itime in meditation and prayer in my little old house.  No sooner	
ihad I sat on that dusty floor and placed my hands lightly on the	
iwooden slats when a cloud broke and a fresh beam of sunlight	
iwarmed my cheek. Like everything in that place, the symbols speak	
ia language I understand intuitively. 	
i	
iThat sunlight is what I needed tonight. That's how my prayer	
iworks.	
