i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
igoodbye tilde.black		gopher.black	70
iSeptember 05th, 2020		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA few days ago I woke up to a string of emails about abuse from		gopher.black	70
ia member of tilde.black upon EFNet, the IRC network. I was about		gopher.black	70
ito start work and didn't have the energy or time to deal with the		gopher.black	70
iproblem, so I took the server offline. The next day I thought more		gopher.black	70
iabout the situation and realization came to me that I had		gopher.black	70
iabsolutely no desire to spend my time figuring out who the bad		gopher.black	70
iapple was this time, removing them, and sealing the door against		gopher.black	70
ithem returning. It wasn't the first time I'd had to act upon		gopher.black	70
isomeone taking advantage of the system and it sure looked like		gopher.black	70
ithis wouldn't be the last time either.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhen I created tilde.black it was on a whim. I had this silly idea		gopher.black	70
ithat I could pre-generate usernames from dictionary words and then		gopher.black	70
iwhen people joined they would get a random name. What better way		gopher.black	70
ito provide anonymity, right? Since it was going to be a system		gopher.black	70
iabout privacy, I felt a secure OS was warranted and I went with		gopher.black	70
iopenbsd despite knowing nothing about it. This was an opportunity		gopher.black	70
ito learn, and learn I did. I learned to value and appreciate a lot		gopher.black	70
iabout that system. The sane defaults, the truly incredible		gopher.black	70
idocumentation, and the intuitive configuration were all pleasant		gopher.black	70
isurprises. The web server, horribly named httpd (try web-searching		gopher.black	70
ifor help on that) was another matter. Shortly before this incident		gopher.black	70
iI had finally broken down and just installed nginx.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe experiment was good. It lasted far longer than I expected and		gopher.black	70
igained far, far more users than I ever thought would find it		gopher.black	70
iinteresting. For one thing the very nature of this private tilde		gopher.black	70
iwent against the concepts of community building that really make		gopher.black	70
ia tilde work. There was almost no peer engagement happening. But		gopher.black	70
ipeople were attracted to the idea of the server. I think, in the		gopher.black	70
iend, I was too. I really liked the concept of a private, anonymous		gopher.black	70
iplace where people could experiment. In reality it was pretty		gopher.black	70
iboring, though.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFrom a user perspective the best thing that came out of it was		gopher.black	70
ibrool, a user who kept a file called "stoned.txt". It was in		gopher.black	70
iessence a never-ending phlog/journal of random thoughts, ideas,		gopher.black	70
iand art that came to them while they were high. It was fantastic.		gopher.black	70
iI'm sad that's not around anymore. I hope whoever made it has		gopher.black	70
ia copy somewhere and finds a way to ressurect it on another		gopher.black	70
iserver. It spawned a few copy-cat files, but it was a true		gopher.black	70
imasterpiece and really deserves some recognition.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBeyond that there was some stock market analysis, a few irc bot		gopher.black	70
icoding projects, the odd shell scripting thing here or there, and		gopher.black	70
ia few minimal websites. Not a lot to miss.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI had put my initial gemini work up on the server. In fact, I made		gopher.black	70
iit a point not to put gemini on gopher.black or on any of my		gopher.black	70
itomasino domains specifically as an excuse to log into tilde.black		gopher.black	70
iand do something. That was all backed up in git, though, and has		gopher.black	70
isince migrated over to tilde.team[0].		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] Tomasino's Gemini site	URL:gemini://tilde.team/~tomasino/
i		gopher.black	70
iTilde.Black is shut down for good. I stopped seeing it as fun at		gopher.black	70
isome point and it had become a burden. I hadn't been able to put		gopher.black	70
ithat into words until this EFNet incident. Were it not for this		gopher.black	70
itrigger the site may have continued for months more, but it would		gopher.black	70
ihave inevitably fallen. It was a neat idea and that's good enough.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iNow I have cosmic.voyage as my sole remaining tilde community and		gopher.black	70
iI want to put my love back into it. With the growing popularity of		gopher.black	70
iblack I hadn't spent nearly enough time looking after cosmic. It's		gopher.black	70
ibeen sort of on autopilot, you might say. There's still writers		gopher.black	70
iwriting. There's still chatters in the channel in IRC. I find		gopher.black	70
iI still have a passion for it and an excitement for it to continue		gopher.black	70
iand grow.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis November I'm going to put out a series of writing prompts as		gopher.black	70
ia sort of mini-contest to see how much we can all write. I don't		gopher.black	70
iknow that there are any prizes, but hey, maybe? I just want to		gopher.black	70
ireally do something for it to give it the love. Do you know what		gopher.black	70
iI mean?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt reminds me a bit of cat's sites: baud.baby, baud.vision, and		gopher.black	70
ikonpeito.media. There's a guy who has some incredible passion to		gopher.black	70
ithe stuff he puts out there and I am in awe of it each time he		gopher.black	70
idoes so. But like cat, I get bored of it sometimes. Bored isn't		gopher.black	70
ieven the right word. Other things come first and it sort of		gopher.black	70
idoesn't matter. Or maybe it does matter, but the fact that it		gopher.black	70
imatters annoys me so I ignore it. Or maybe my mind is just sick of		gopher.black	70
idealing with thoughts in the way required to engage with my		gopher.black	70
iproject. There's a hundred metaphors and none are quite correct.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iCosmic will be getting more love soon. Hopefully my gopher hole		gopher.black	70
iwill as well. Once I start writing in one place it's hard not to		gopher.black	70
iwrite everywhere. Maybe this post will help kick it off! Either		gopher.black	70
iway, saying goodbye to Tilde Black feels great.		gopher.black	70
