 ----------------------------------------
 Bluetooth is easy
 February 24th, 2018
 ----------------------------------------
 
 I ran across a little demo project the other day showing how a $7
 component could connect an Arduino to any bluetooth device. It was
 a bit of a revelation for me. I had assumed that there was a lot
 going on in Bluetooth land, and that it wasn't worth the effort
 diving into all the protocol nonsense. It turns out it's
 a glorified serial port.
 
 Enter the HC-05 and it's brother the HC-06. These little 4-pin
 components handle all the parts of Bluetooth you don't care about.
 Here's what you get: 5V input, Ground, Tx, Rx. Sound familiar?
 
 I plopped a Lucky Shield onto my Arduino so I had some sensors
 going, ran the example Lucky Shield Test, which outputs a bunch of
 data from those sensors to the Serial debug panel, and plugged in
 a HC-06. I paired the HC-06 with my phone by entering the default
 1234 code. Then I opened up a serial debugger on my phone. 
 
 I was pleasently greeted by a bunch of information about the
 light, humidity, air pressure, and so on. No fuss, no muss. I love
 it when things just work.
 
 The HC-05 and HC-06 are very similar in features and price. The
 HC-05 can do more, act as a master bluetooth device instead of
 a slave, and send some funky control stuff that I don't care
 about. I got the HC-06 because I found one on Amazon Prime and
 I was impatient. I saw these in bulk on Alibaba for under $2.
 
 I'm going to rig up a little voltage divider circuit with
 a handful of push buttons, flash it onto an ATTiny85, and try to
 design and print a PCB for the unit. It'll connect with the HC-06,
 and eventually I'll 3D print a case for it. I want a little
 component based, battery powered, bluetooth button controller that
 I can use for random acts of silliness.
 
 In other, less fun, news, my latest raspberry pi zero w is
 refusing to play nice with the wifi. I set it up identically to
 the last one which worked flawlessly, but nada. I'm going to bring
 it in to work and swap the SD card I have in the working one to
 check if the problem is hardware related or software caused.
 
 Moops.
 

