i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iSolar Hydroponics		gopher.black	70
iJune 24th, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI'm doing some mental planning toward a very small hydroponics		gopher.black	70
iexperiment. I will likely start with just one plant, an herb, in		gopher.black	70
ia solo environment. I know I can do a self-contained system		gopher.black	70
iwithout aeration at that scale, but I want to build it as if it		gopher.black	70
iwere a larger system, but in miniature. I want the system to be		gopher.black	70
ioff-grid as well. I'd like it to be as mechanical as possible, in		gopher.black	70
ifact.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI found one little video oh a solar radiation powered aerator.		gopher.black	70
iBasically, it was an empty air chamber that was darkly colored and		gopher.black	70
ihad no-return valves that forced air in one hole only and out		gopher.black	70
ithrough the "pump". The out-bound port was covered in a bubbler		gopher.black	70
irock. When the sun hit the bottle it heated the air inside, which		gopher.black	70
iforced the air forward out into the reservoir. When the bottle		gopher.black	70
icooled it would draw more air back in through the outer valve. If		gopher.black	70
ithe sun cycled exposure at a fairly regular interval, it seems		gopher.black	70
ilike it might help circulate some into the reservoir over time.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere were lots of problems with it, of course. The pressure of		gopher.black	70
ithe temperature change didn't create that much air flow. If the		gopher.black	70
ilight were fairly constant it would only expel once and then be at		gopher.black	70
irest. It needs some work to draw and billow more air. I was		gopher.black	70
ithinking about having a radiometer inside the chamber, as air flow		gopher.black	70
iinside would force it to work as a more continuous air pump, but		gopher.black	70
iI think those barely create enough force to spin in a vacuum. I'm		gopher.black	70
iclose to a solve here that does not involve electronics at all,		gopher.black	70
ibut I'm just not quite there.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOnce that's fixed, my next line of inquiry will be nutrients. What		gopher.black	70
iexactly goes into those fertilizer bits and how can I generate my		gopher.black	70
iown source without a store. Is that even a reasonable thing to do?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIf I can solve for solar powered aeration (not using solar panels		gopher.black	70
i& electronics) and nutrient creation, then I should be able to		gopher.black	70
iconstruct a fully off-grid, automated hydroponics rig. I am just		gopher.black	70
iawful at remembering to do things on a regular basis, so if this		gopher.black	70
iis to succeed I absolutely must automate.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOther things to consider:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i- Auto-balancing water distribution to the correct levels		gopher.black	70
i- Rotation / cycling position for sun exposure		gopher.black	70
i- Portability of net systems for transferring between small		gopher.black	70
i  & larger rigs		gopher.black	70
i- Auto-timing of nutrient injection & mixing		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iDo any of you have experience in hydroponics? Anything to add?		gopher.black	70
