i----------------------------------------	
iMore migrations	
iMarch 29th, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iI stayed up a little bit late last night and transferred all my	
idomains off of AWS, then I nuked it. Every trace of me is gone	
ifrom that platform, and once this horrible bill is paid I'm	
iclosing the account completely.	
i	
iIn the wake of the move I started thinking about where to put all	
imy stuff and I decided that this little Raspberry Pi is more than	
isufficient for my needs. I have already gone through the headache	
iof converting all my web properties to static sites in order to	
ihost on S3, so putting content into nginx seems like the easy and	
iobvious next step.	
i	
iI've installed nginx and I'm reading up on how to manage multiple	
isites with it (seems almost identical to Apache). I'll clone down	
ithe websites when I get home tonight, port forward 80 and reset my	
iDNS A records. I've already put together a script for gopher.black	
ithat handles my dynamic dns changes and updates Namesilo, so I can	
ieasily package in the rest of my domains there. Finally, I'll want	
iHTTPS, so I guess it's finally time for me to read the man page on	
icertbot and start using LetsEncrypt. Whee!	
i	
iNone of this sounds particularly difficult. Hopefully I won't run	
iinto any unexpected walls.	
i	
i- - - - -	
i	
iMoving away from the technical stuff, dropping AWS also represents	
ia shedding of a gross skin I've been wearing. I don't like the	
imonolithic, data-consuming giants. It hurts my heart when	
iI continue to use them, as I've mentioned before. I acknowledge	
ithat I'll make choices that compromise my principles due to	
iconvenience, and that's something I would like to lessen.	
i	
iDo you think simply pulling websites off AWS can help facilitate	
ithat sort of change? Am I ready to shut down my Google account? Is	
ithat even viable as an Android user with Project Fi? I doubt it.	
iWhat are my realistic alternatives for phone service, anyway? Next	
iyear I'll have a super-basic eInk phone I can set up on t-mobile,	
ibut are they any better? Is any phone service any better?	
i	
iI suspect I have a tiny bit of inertia I can use here but I just	
idon't see a clear action I can take. A lot of you have done	
isimilar transitions in the past. Do you have any advice?	
