 ----------------------------------------
 Know yourself
 February 07th, 2018
 ----------------------------------------
 
 I picked up a little box of cards called Know Yourself [0].
 They're prompts for self-exploration or meditation. In all, there
 are 60 cards that ask you questions to help guide you to a more
 thorough understanding of self.
 
 I'm a nerd for a lot of things, many of which are technical.
 Hardware hacking, obscure programming languages, weird Japanese
 flutes, you get the idea. Some of my nerdiness is geared toward
 philosophy and religion, though. I have that Jesuit background, of
 course, and a long history of reading and experimenting with other
 options than Catholocism. Through all that jazz I've collected
 ideas just like I collect old machines. Meditation techniques are
 my aesthetic, as the kids say.
 
 Anyway, here's one card to whet your whistle:
 
   Front:
 
     In your worst fears, what might your colleagues at work be
     criticising you for behind your back?
 
   Rear:
 
     There is no point being squeamish here. Your fears are
     correct. Anything you might suspect others might think is
     already a reality. The point isn't to escape such imagined
     gossip but to take gracious measures to deal with its almost
     certain existence.
 
 It's an interesting card and it put my mind on a few things.
 I like to walk around and visit with people at work as a way of
 taking a break, stretching my legs and my mind. I'm sure it annoys
 some of the people in the office, though I don't think it's the
 ones I visit. I'm sure there's people who have personal feelings
 against the way I handle situations, or whom I rub the wrong way.
 I don't always roll over and let people have their way, and that
 can be seen as combative or antagonistic at times.
 
 These aren't new thoughts and they don't bother me. I've accepted
 that my purpose in my career isn't to be liked by all people. It's
 to be effective, fulfilled as much as possible, to forge good
 relationships where possible, and to provide for my family. I'm
 okay with the rest as-is.
 
 The other part that grabbed my attention was the bit on the
 flipside of the card. I like the directness it takes and even the
 way its worded. On the surface it seems like it's suggesting that
 you find a way to fix or rectify the things at work which you may
 be criticised for. Upon a closer look it carefully says only to
 "take gracious measures to deal with" the criticism.
 
 In stoic terms, this is a fantastic approach because it's not
 focused on fixing something which is beyond your control (i.e.,
 making those around you like you), but instead with the elements
 that are in your control (namely, your reactions). Think long and
 hard about the criticisms others may have and consider them. Are
 they valid? If so, I may want to change something I do, or I may
 feel that my choice is more important than their reaction to it.
 Maybe their criticism is invalid. Whichever situation may exist
 the most important thing is to find peace with it and focus my
 energy on only the things which are in my absolute control.
 
 I like these cards. Maybe I'll do a written response to another
 one some day.
 

h[0] Know Yourself - Cards for Self-Exploration	URL:http://www.amazon.com/School-Life-Yourself-Prompt-Self-Reflection/dp/B01GGGR2VG
