i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
ithe apocrypha of cat - the desert		gopher.black	70
iSeptember 06th, 2019		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt is said that before the desert, there was no cat.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt is also said that before cat, there was no desert.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhat is known is that when cat left the desert he left a piece of		gopher.black	70
ihimself behind and took something different in its place. For		gopher.black	70
ibefore the desert was a time when cat wore colors, when he sang		gopher.black	70
ikaraoke, and most importantly, when he had hair.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe sages speak of a time before myth and before legend when the		gopher.black	70
iworld held its breath waiting for a story to begin and set all in		gopher.black	70
imotion. In some traditions this began with a Word, or a song that		gopher.black	70
ican be heard in the Vedas, but the true devotee knows the truth.		gopher.black	70
iThe story began with a baby doll crying.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iCat found the doll at the edge of the great expanse stretching		gopher.black	70
iendlessly beyond horizon covered in scrub brush and dust devils.		gopher.black	70
iLow in the sky, the sun was quickly fleeing the heat of the day.		gopher.black	70
iThe baby cried once, twice, and a third time as a true harbinger.		gopher.black	70
iIn that aged voice-box a clarion rang from the heavens and opened		gopher.black	70
icat's eyes to Truth, such as needs capitalization and archaic		gopher.black	70
imeter.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHe lifted the baby in his arms with tender care and when he looked		gopher.black	70
idown again his shoes had become Doc Martens. He knew these boots		gopher.black	70
iwere meant for walking, and that's just what he did as they		gopher.black	70
icarried him deeper into the void. A voice then spoke, and cat knew		gopher.black	70
iit to be his own though it carried no identifiable accent. It had		gopher.black	70
ithe cadence of an American and the diction of an Aussie but		gopher.black	70
iscrambled deep in the bowels of bargain-bin Anime and food trucks.		gopher.black	70
iThe words themselves sounded like carnies trying their best to		gopher.black	70
ihide their shame on a home visit for Christmas. It was glorious		gopher.black	70
iand held the true power that can only be found in softness.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhen cat asked the wind, "Why do I sound like this?" The wind		gopher.black	70
iresponded with a susurrus more brutal and jagged than cat's own		gopher.black	70
ivoice. In that moment the wind relented knowing that cat had		gopher.black	70
ibecome as wind himself. And so he drifted forward further into the		gopher.black	70
idesert.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn the desert he found many things. Boredom was chief amongst his		gopher.black	70
idiscoveries, though. His ennui bore a hole into the Earth,		gopher.black	70
ihallowing it out and filling it with monsters and myth. It		gopher.black	70
iexpanded to the heavens and cast aliens from the sky raining down		gopher.black	70
iacross time. It filled our oceans and created Seaquest DSV, which		gopher.black	70
iit is said nobody watched, ever. Finally his boredom brought him		gopher.black	70
iback to the baby with it's soft coos and stuttered cries. In that		gopher.black	70
ibeatific countenance he saw the purity of purpose of the crafted		gopher.black	70
idoll and it spoke a second Truth. Forever would he seek such		gopher.black	70
iperfection in all things that crossed his gaze.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut his quest for beauty was at odds with the desert, for the only		gopher.black	70
ibeauty of the desert is in its solitude. While cat remained it		gopher.black	70
icould never be itself. To love a thing and to crave for it such		gopher.black	70
ibeauty as he did, cat knew he had to leave.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd so, with the pure will of his element, he breathed outward		gopher.black	70
iacross the landscape and painted it with all his colors. The pinks		gopher.black	70
iand fuchsias washed across the sky and land. The deep blues of his		gopher.black	70
ieyes filled the sky. But green, which he always had avoided in his		gopher.black	70
iyouth, would not come from him. And so the desert would hold its		gopher.black	70
ipurity and its beauty for all time while cat was left with only		gopher.black	70
idarkness to shroud himself.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn Doc Martens he walked forth and it is whispered that he left		gopher.black	70
ithree secrets behind in the vastness. The first was a fax number		gopher.black	70
iof unknown purpose. The second was a horde of unused raspberry		gopher.black	70
ipis. And the third was the greatest mix tape of all time.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThese days cat wanders the Earth in search of beauty and truth		gopher.black	70
iwhile battling those forces diametrically opposed. Chiefly among		gopher.black	70
ithese is Salesforce, which cat has made his personal dragon to		gopher.black	70
islay.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOne day cat may return to the desert and teach it the secrets he		gopher.black	70
ihas learned. It is said you can find hints of these secrets buried		gopher.black	70
iunderground in the depths of his latest baby, if you know where to		gopher.black	70
ilook.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iRemember what cat does for us each and every day and give thanks.		gopher.black	70
