i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iStar Trek Discovery		gopher.black	70
iNovember 26th, 2020		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHoly shit, this show is the worst. It's physically painful for me.		gopher.black	70
iUggggghhhhhhh.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI was thinking about doing a systematic take-down laying out all		gopher.black	70
ithe failings in a logical way and truly sticking it to the		gopher.black	70
iwriters, but who has the energy for all that. Instead, here's		gopher.black	70
ia rambling whine of why I think this is officially the worst trek		gopher.black	70
ithat has ever been.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFirst and foremost, Star Trek has always been an ensemble story*.		gopher.black	70
iDiscovery is a major departure for that and tries to lie to itself		gopher.black	70
ithat it's not. But James, what about the shaved-head pilot girl,		gopher.black	70
iand the red-head, and the squid-faced guy, and the mushroom drive		gopher.black	70
iguy and his husband the doctor? Fine. Name them. Seriously. What		gopher.black	70
iis anyone's name on this damn show? Don't know, don't care. Nobody		gopher.black	70
igets more than half an episode of back-story except our darling.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMichael Burnham is the main character. She is, quite frankly,		gopher.black	70
ia Mary Sue of the worst variety. Not only is every problem faced		gopher.black	70
iby the universe something that she needs to fix personally, but		gopher.black	70
ishe will mutiny and disobey direct orders to do so only to be		gopher.black	70
iforgiven time and time again because "she had no choice."		gopher.black	70
iBullshit. Utter crap. This character is relentlessly self-absorbed		gopher.black	70
iand pig-headed. She acts recklessly and has gotten her own best		gopher.black	70
ifriend and captain killed in the process but learned nothing from		gopher.black	70
iit. The worst of it is that she as this false modesty. "We'll do		gopher.black	70
iit as a team," she says to the crew of nameless people after she		gopher.black	70
ijust went off solo and spoke for the whole federation without		gopher.black	70
iconsulting anyone on shit.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd what is with that? Everything Discovery does is saving the		gopher.black	70
ientire universe or starting or ending galactic wars, the end of		gopher.black	70
iall life, or some massive thing like that. The show starts out		gopher.black	70
iwith the Klingon wars which they either started or ended or both,		gopher.black	70
iI can't keep it straight. Next up they're destroying empires in		gopher.black	70
ithe mirror universe and then I guess they ran out of history to		gopher.black	70
imess with so they've jumped forward in time so the Federation is		gopher.black	70
ifailing again so they can save it anew. This is a bad fanfiction		gopher.black	70
iwhere everything needs to be the 100% most dramatic bullshit at		gopher.black	70
iany moment. Why is one ship that nobody has ever heard of or		gopher.black	70
imentioned at all at the heart of every fucking event in history?		gopher.black	70
iWhy even mention the ship, how about we just mention Michael		gopher.black	70
iBurnham, who has saved everything countless times and deserves		gopher.black	70
ia whole planet to be carved into a statue of her. Except she is		gopher.black	70
ialso so meaningless that nobody ever mentioned that Spock had		gopher.black	70
ia sister and she was human and did all this stuff. Yeah. that's		gopher.black	70
iright. Spock's sister. Cause fanfic.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOkay, okay, so the plots are dumb and the characters illogical,		gopher.black	70
inon-trek in style, and flat. But at least it's well constructed,		gopher.black	70
iright? Well... sorta, except how the big bad Klingon lady in the		gopher.black	70
ifirst season had such a shitty mask on she couldn't speak clearly		gopher.black	70
ithrough it and everything came out muffled. Or there's the lens		gopher.black	70
iflares on everything as if JJ Abrams didn't get his ass chewed out		gopher.black	70
iover that a decade ago. Or silly things like having the saucer		gopher.black	70
isection spin. Why does it do that? What purpose does that possibly		gopher.black	70
iserve? And why does the ship flip upside down when it travels on		gopher.black	70
ithe mushroom super-highway.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iRiiiiight, did I not mention the mushroom super-highway before?		gopher.black	70
iThat's the show's mcguffin right there. It can go anywhere		gopher.black	70
iinstantly. Nice, right? Except maybe that was a little too		gopher.black	70
ipowerful so we'll spend the next 3 seasons hamstringing it and		gopher.black	70
itrying to backpedal. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's just so much stupid shit I can keep going forever. In		gopher.black	70
itonight's episode, for instance, the captain decided that after		gopher.black	70
iMichael Burnham's 53rd disobeying of orders he should probably not		gopher.black	70
imake her his first officer anymore. So who should replace her? Oh,		gopher.black	70
iwhat about the plucky comic relief ensign? She's literally the		gopher.black	70
ilowest ranked person on the entire fucking ship. Let's make her #2		gopher.black	70
iin charge, mmmkay? But she's obviously not cut out for it and is		gopher.black	70
igonna sweat over the decision. I know, we'll have everyone chime		gopher.black	70
iin and tell her to say yes to the dress and it'll be this epic		gopher.black	70
imoment of solidarity. *VOMIT*		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd that brings me to my last point. Last not because it's the		gopher.black	70
ilast thing wrong with the show but because I'm too bored of		gopher.black	70
italking about this waste of time to continue. "The Epic Moment"		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThat's what this show tries to be. The Epic Moment, again and		gopher.black	70
iagain and again. Why? Cause that's what fanfic does. Jump from		gopher.black	70
iamazing thing to amazing thing, let your Mary Sue save the day and		gopher.black	70
ihave Epic Moments. Monologue, YES. Threaten and then do some		gopher.black	70
ibadass fighty shit and win. Don't worry that your ship is		gopher.black	70
iliterally 1000 years old and a little kid's toy bike could take		gopher.black	70
iout your star ship now, you've got moxie. And the Epic Moments		gopher.black	70
iwon't just be action and adventure, but heartfelt too. How do we		gopher.black	70
iknow? Well, everyone will whisper and tear up! Yes, even the		gopher.black	70
iMirror Universe queen of evil shit will have a soft spot for		gopher.black	70
iMichael Burnham's ass because Mary Sue!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn all of this, in every single moment, nothing is earned. Michael		gopher.black	70
iwill get 1 episode to journey into the future and adventure		gopher.black	70
iwondering where the Discovery is. The very start of episode 2 she		gopher.black	70
ifinds the ship and has a tearful reunion about how she's been		gopher.black	70
isearching for them for a whole year. You can tell cause her hair		gopher.black	70
igot longer. We saw none of it, felt none of it, and so the payoff		gopher.black	70
iis flat. It's the same when we say a tearful goodbye to bridge		gopher.black	70
icrew member #7 who I never learned the name of, but had a funny		gopher.black	70
imouth guard. It's all meaningless drivel without actual emotional		gopher.black	70
idepth because they never invested in anyone or anything. We were		gopher.black	70
itoo busy jumping through mushrooms to the next moment of awesome.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iNate Cull on Mastodon had this to add:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  I really feel that kids today (by which I mean most movie and TV		gopher.black	70
i  sci-fi writers) just have zero experience of working in		gopher.black	70
i  a competent functioning team and so they can't write stories in		gopher.black	70
i  a setting that requires there be a competent functioning team.		gopher.black	70
i  It's all gotta be "BUT MY PROBLEMS COME FIRST" and having loud		gopher.black	70
i  temper tantrums while trying to, eg, run an actual ship which		gopher.black	70
i  will explode if anyone pushes the wrong button at any moment on		gopher.black	70
i  their shift.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  I wonder if this is partly because having a career in movies or		gopher.black	70
i  TV writing is something that only spoiled rich kids can afford		gopher.black	70
i  to do nowadays, and so they literally can't comprehend what it's		gopher.black	70
i  like to not always be the most important person in the room. Or		gopher.black	70
i  is it just a deliberate dumbing down of writing to try to		gopher.black	70
i  capture a young mass audience who have mostly never experienced		gopher.black	70
i  working in even, say, a factory, let alone a military?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  But I mean if you even ran a McDonalds like the Federation runs		gopher.black	70
i  the Starship Discovery, yikes.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI couldn't agree more.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis show is just terrible writing. It's an embarrassment to the		gopher.black	70
iStar Trek franchise. It undermines what it stands for and weakens		gopher.black	70
icanon with nonsense. The best I can hope for is that the last act		gopher.black	70
iof the dying crew will be to erase themselves from history so we		gopher.black	70
ican all ignore this shit and get back to our lives.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i----- 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i* I acknowledge that Picard is not an ensemble story, but it is		gopher.black	70
inot pretending to be one. It's literally named for the one guy.		gopher.black	70
iI am okay with this. They could have made the entire show about		gopher.black	70
ihim growing grapes on his vineyard and I'd have sat through it to		gopher.black	70
isee Patrick Stewart act.		gopher.black	70
