 ----------------------------------------
 New Format Test
 October 03rd, 2017
 ----------------------------------------
 
 In this phlog entry, I've changed my type to 1 instead of 0--that
 is I've moved my entry to a gophermap instead of a text file.
 This allows me to make links in the file. I'm going to do that in
 a footnote pattern, like I've been doing in my text entries. That
 should avoid breaking things visually.
 
 This first entry I'm building by hand as a way of discovering all
 the different things I'll need to tweak to make this work. The
 first is obviously that I'll be creating a folder for entries
 instead of a single text file. That will break my "Phlog Stream"
 option, so I'll likely remove it for the short term. The next
 change I'm making is changing my textwidth to 69 instead of 80.
 I did 66 instead of 67 because I'm going to add a blank space
 character in the front of every line in the document before the
 links footer. That should avoid any problems with accidentally
 starting a line with a number and having it interpretted as
 a gophermap menu item. I think I'll author everything normally
 and handle that extra space with a sed [0] command in my script.
 
 The links in the footer are interesting. I'm not sure there's
 a good way to automate those. I added a reference to sed in the
 paragraph above in the link style I was using before. Maybe I'll
 prefix the link word or phrase in the footer with the
 cooresponding number for reference. That should be enough
 context.
 
 Adding the entry to the gophermap seems no harder than before.
 Honestly, this is going to be pretty simple to do, and should
 help my rendering on phones and small screens. 67 characters is
 the gopher spec, so I should try to stick to it.
 
 What do you all think? Is there anything else I could do to make
 this format work better? It's a lot to change in my generator
 just to support links, but I think it'll be really nice to be
 able to not only reference other people's phlogs but link to the
 entries as well.
 
h[0] sed	URL:http://www.gnu.org/software/sed/
