i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iTracking as Stalking		gopher.black	70
iMay 27th, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iStalking - 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i"criminal activity consisting of the repeated following and		gopher.black	70
iharassing of another person."		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i"a course of conduct directed at a specific person that involves		gopher.black	70
irepeated (two or more occasions) visual or physical proximity,		gopher.black	70
inonconsensual communication, or verbal, written, or implied		gopher.black	70
ithreats, or a combination thereof, that would cause a reasonable		gopher.black	70
iperson fear."		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere is an argument made by those practicing large-scale data		gopher.black	70
icapture and aggregation of individuals that the data they collect		gopher.black	70
iis public information, and therefore it is legal and justified.		gopher.black	70
iEven if the information collected was indeed all public--and I do		gopher.black	70
inot agree to that line of argument at all--then the question is		gopher.black	70
istill not settled. The very act of repeated visual proximity		gopher.black	70
i(which is transferrable to digital media via cyber-stalking		gopher.black	70
idefinitions) which could cause a "reasonable person fear" falls		gopher.black	70
iclearly within the bounds of stalking. If it is a corporation		gopher.black	70
icommiting these acts, then it is no less culpable than if it were		gopher.black	70
ian individual. After all, corporations are people too, right? [0]		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
0[0] Corporate personhood (Gopherpedia)	/Corporate personhood	gopherpedia.com	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe act of data aggregation of an individual carries with it the		gopher.black	70
iinherent threat of what is being done with that data. As more		gopher.black	70
irevelations are brought to light informing the public of the		gopher.black	70
ideeply unsettling targeting of individuals for political		gopher.black	70
imanipulation, commercial activation, or social harassment, the		gopher.black	70
ifear increases. What else could be done with that information?		gopher.black	70
iEven if nothing is actually put into motion, the act of		gopher.black	70
icollection, of monitoring, is in itself a form of digital stalking		gopher.black	70
ithat explicitly undermines the argument of "public information".		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnonymous collection of data into aggregate data sets that cannot		gopher.black	70
ibe retargeted or focused to communicate outbound with a specific		gopher.black	70
ipopulation or person is still problematic. If that data allows you		gopher.black	70
ito segment or infer the actions of a type of person or group,		gopher.black	70
iespecially one that routinely faces subjugation or discrimination,		gopher.black	70
ithen the act of collection contributes to a justifiable fear of		gopher.black	70
ipersecution. It is stalking.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe counter argument to all of these points is that the underlying		gopher.black	70
ieconomic power of the internet is governed and supplied by data		gopher.black	70
icollection. It is a capitalist requirement that some sort of		gopher.black	70
ieconomic incentive be present to promote the growth and stability		gopher.black	70
iof the systems. Money talks, or so the argument goes. How can we		gopher.black	70
icut out advertising and still have nice things? Will everything		gopher.black	70
ineed to become a paid subscription?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHere's the thing: there is no inherent, inaliable rights to		gopher.black	70
iNetflix. Facebook is not a universal, precious entity that		gopher.black	70
ideserves the protection and preservation of all people. The only		gopher.black	70
ithing that fits that category is the people themselves. If		gopher.black	70
iprotecting individuals and groups of people damages these systems,		gopher.black	70
ithen that is the path that should be followed. If those systems		gopher.black	70
ican find an alternative, legal way to continue their operations		gopher.black	70
ithen kudos to them. There is no argument that should value the		gopher.black	70
icontinued operation of a social network over the safety of even		gopher.black	70
ia single individual. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMoney talks in capitalism, but capitalism cannot be allowed to run		gopher.black	70
iunchecked. The morality of all people must pull on those reins and		gopher.black	70
ikeep careful watch. Systems of governance cannot become		gopher.black	70
isubservient to the interests of economic forces over those of		gopher.black	70
imoral obligation. Any systems of governance that allow this will		gopher.black	70
iultimately fail. First they will fail their people, and eventually		gopher.black	70
ithey will fail completely, often with dire consequences to both		gopher.black	70
ithose in power and those oppressed by it.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iData collection is a simple thing. It's easy to watch tracking		gopher.black	70
ievents fire and show up in pretty graphs. It's easy to use this to		gopher.black	70
ioptimize your experiences, improve them, make the user's day		gopher.black	70
ia little easier. It's easy to look at the rosy garden that casual		gopher.black	70
ianalytics presents and see only the flowers. Just like		gopher.black	70
icapitalism's promise of innovation through financial competition,		gopher.black	70
ithe premise is beautiful on the surface. Left unchecked it will		gopher.black	70
icorrupt. That corruption will consolodate power and influence.		gopher.black	70
iThat power and influence will allocate more benefit to the few in		gopher.black	70
icharge at the cost of the masses. The flowers are not worth it.		gopher.black	70
