i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iThe effects of deleting a social medium		gopher.black	70
iMarch 06th, 2020		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI recently removed the Instagram app from my phone. (pause for		gopher.black	70
iapplause).		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis is not a statement about the evils of social media, or the		gopher.black	70
iobjectification of ketogenic foods, or whatever else you might be		gopher.black	70
iguessing. It's about time.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI removed the app because of the little magnifying-glass button		gopher.black	70
inext to the home feed. There was a tendency for me to fill my time		gopher.black	70
iby looking at random pictures Instagram thought relevant to me.		gopher.black	70
iThis was really easy for their algorithm to game and optimize.		gopher.black	70
iVery quickly I had an endless scroll of "neat" stuff, and that was		gopher.black	70
isucking up way too much of my time without any tangible reward.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI like my own instagram feed. Seeing photos from friends and		gopher.black	70
iplaces that interest me is cool and relatively quick to consume.		gopher.black	70
iI don't need to read much and I can "catch up" quickly in a linear		gopher.black	70
itimeline. If there were a way to disable that little magnifier		gopher.black	70
iicon the app would still be on my phone.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI've since started posting pictures on pixelfed [0]. There's not		gopher.black	70
imuch to that app except the posting of pictures, so the temptation		gopher.black	70
ito check it at other times is gone. When I post something I give		gopher.black	70
ithe feed a quick scroll to see if anything new is there, and then		gopher.black	70
iI'm done. Easy!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] pixelfed	URL:https://pixfed.com/jamestomasino
i		gopher.black	70
iEven so, in the days following the Instagram change I went through		gopher.black	70
ithe usual withdrawl. I ended up closing and opening mastodon again		gopher.black	70
iseveral times in a row as my hands tried to fill the habit with		gopher.black	70
ithe available tools. Now several days in I'm no longer in that		gopher.black	70
ihabitual loop and I've begun reclaiming my time [1].		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[1] Reclaiming my time	URL:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tqCZzs7UXIo
i		gopher.black	70
iThe first effect is my improved patience with long-form content.		gopher.black	70
iI've been catching up on phlogs & blogs (RSS) more readily. That		gopher.black	70
iwas unexpected but appreciated. It makes me wonder about the		gopher.black	70
iimplications too. If cutting out one small habit that involved		gopher.black	70
ishort attention-span cycling has such a major effect on my overall		gopher.black	70
ipatience, how crippled is my current state? If I cut out Mastodon		gopher.black	70
iand even IRC, would that attention continue to grow? How fast?		gopher.black	70
iThis might warrant some experimentation.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnother effect is a diminishing of the value of my phone.		gopher.black	70
iI haven't ceased using it and there are plenty of other apps that		gopher.black	70
ihold my attention for lengthy periods. Still, the change has been		gopher.black	70
itangible. Again, further experimentation is needed.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI know this community is filled with folks who have gone through		gopher.black	70
isimilar changes. What's your experience with cutting out a social		gopher.black	70
iplatform? Has it remained cut out? Do you still see the tangibles		gopher.black	70
iin your life, or did those fade to some sort of "rest state"? Were		gopher.black	70
ithere notable negatives?		gopher.black	70
