 ----------------------------------------
 Mortality
 February 27th, 2018
 ----------------------------------------
 
 My phone rings. Mom's face stares up at me. I hesitate.
 
 Dad's been sick, the kind you don't get better from. It's too soon
 for this to be the call, right? 
 
 I breathe.
 
 "Hello?" I cringe.
 
 "Hey." It's my dad's voice. Why is it dad's voice? He hasn't
 called in a year. Mom makes the calls and he jumps on the line. Is
 mom okay? What are we going to do if mom goes first?
 
 "Hey there. What's going on?" Don't say it...
 
 He struggles to get his voice to go. It's not quite a wheeze or
 a cough, more like priming an engine. A few false starts, pulls at
 that motor, and finally he gets it.
 
 "Can't get anything to load on Google. TurboTax deal expires
 tomorrow."
 
 Computer trouble, thank God. I used to dread these calls from my
 parents when I was younger. Glorified tech support for the family.
 Now it's a relief. It's a chance to talk with him, to have
 a subject that isn't the illness, or politics where there is no
 middle ground. It's something I can help him with. He'll take
 pride in my knowing the answer.
 
 "Do you have Teamviewer installed still?"
 
 Silence on the line. Is he there? I think I can hear him still,
 but he's not answering. He did this when I was young and he was
 annoyed with explaining things ad naseum. He'd remain silent and
 work on something and let me watch, figure it out myself. Is this
 that? Is he silent on purpose?
 
 "Dad, you there?"
 
 "Yeh," it's almost a word, almost a cough. He can hear me, but
 he's not answering. The sickness?
 
 "Do you still have that program I installed last time I was there?
 The one that lets me control your machine and see what you see?"
 
 Silence.
 
 Patience. This, this is the good stuff left to us. I tell myself
 not to get frustrated, not to get angry. Don't waste it.
 
 We go back and forth like that until I'm miles past where
 I thought my fuse would end. It is frustrating, but I'm not
 letting myself be frustrated.
 
 Mom can help, I think. She can interpret what he's doing, give it
 voice. If I can just see what he's looking at--
 
 I text mom:
 
   Is dad working on the computer? He's not saying anything when
   I ask questions?
 
 A moment later she's over dad's shoulder reading him my text.
 Cringe. Well, maybe he'll answer.
 
 "I'm here." he says, and I wish it were true.
