i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iStallman		gopher.black	70
iMarch 26th, 2021		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iRichard Stallman is back on the board of directors at the Free		gopher.black	70
iSoftware Foundation (FSF) after having resigned eighteen months		gopher.black	70
iago under mounting public pressure for him to be removed for his		gopher.black	70
icontroversial comments about consent in reference to Jeffrey		gopher.black	70
iEpstein sex-trafficking charges. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iVirginia Roberts Giuffre was a 17 year old victim of Epstein who		gopher.black	70
iin her deposition stated that she was directed to have sex with		gopher.black	70
iMarvin Minsky, a member of the MIT faculty. In response to an MIT		gopher.black	70
iCSAIL (Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory)		gopher.black	70
iemail thread planning a protest at MIT over the institution's		gopher.black	70
irelationship with Epstein, Stallman raised issues with the term		gopher.black	70
i"assaulting", stating, "The word 'assaulting' presumes that he		gopher.black	70
iapplied force or violence, in some unspecified way, but the		gopher.black	70
iarticle itself did say no such thing. Only that they had sex."		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn addition to the immediate backlash, statements from Stallman's		gopher.black	70
iblog added fuel to the flames. I am skeptical of the claim that		gopher.black	70
ivoluntarily [sic] pedophilia harms children." (Stallman, 2006)		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn 2019 he later amended, "Through personal conversations in		gopher.black	70
irecent years, I've learned to understand how sex with a child can		gopher.black	70
iharm per psychologically. This changed my mind about the matter:		gopher.black	70
iI think adults should not do that. I am grateful for the		gopher.black	70
iconversations that enabled me to understand why."		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThough often accused of defending Epstein, Stallman has made it		gopher.black	70
iclear that he sees the man as a serial-rapist and condemns his		gopher.black	70
iacts. It is instead these statements surrounding the ideas of		gopher.black	70
iconsent and sexual violence that have sparked the majority of the		gopher.black	70
ioutrage.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMany people feel it is appropriate to separate Stallman from the		gopher.black	70
iFSF and other libre software movements as these personal		gopher.black	70
istatements and views reflects negatively on that community and		gopher.black	70
itheir efforts. Others see in him a champion unmatched in calling		gopher.black	70
ifor libre software engagement and adoption. Many groups in the		gopher.black	70
ifield have been forced to make a public stance in favor or against		gopher.black	70
ihis involvement, such as Mozilla and the Tor Project [0].		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] Mozilla and Tor join calls to oust ...	URL:https://www.fastcompany.com/90618666/mozilla-and-tor-join-calls-to-oust-richard-stallman-from-free-software-foundation
i		gopher.black	70
i                           - - -		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo what do I think? I think the man is a mixture of good ideas and		gopher.black	70
ibad. I think he's naturally brusque and his elevated position in		gopher.black	70
ihis narrow community has fed his ego dangerously, as any power is		gopher.black	70
iwont to do. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI am also guilty of having been wrong in the past. I'm thankful		gopher.black	70
ithat most of my wrongness isn't in permanent written form and		gopher.black	70
iI don't have enemies who seek out my own poor behavior in the past		gopher.black	70
ito drag it into the light today. It's hard enough to change your		gopher.black	70
imind without being anchored to those past decisions through		gopher.black	70
iconstant reminder.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iStallman has lived his life in a tech world with tech solutions,		gopher.black	70
ilogic, and a type of pseudo-logical rhetoric that can make his		gopher.black	70
istatements seem detached or disingenuous. It's something I see		gopher.black	70
icommonly in communities dominated by autistic people, though it's		gopher.black	70
inot limited to those or necessarily present among all autistics.		gopher.black	70
iWhatever the case, it doesn't mesh well with the highly emotional		gopher.black	70
itopics such as sexual predation. The tone itself harms, which is		gopher.black	70
isomething I suspect Stallman is both unaware of and incapable of		gopher.black	70
iaddressing. Coming from a white man in position of power adds to		gopher.black	70
ithe harm and further alienates those who hear what he says. All		gopher.black	70
ithis harm comes separate from and in addition to the comments		gopher.black	70
ithemselves. He was rightfully argued against in that email list		gopher.black	70
iand I think the escalation of the issue into a public forum was		gopher.black	70
inecessary to balance the scales of power. Unfortunately in an		gopher.black	70
iinstitution like MIT and in a group like CSAIL the opinions of		gopher.black	70
iRichard Stallman are not in balance with the others speaking.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWe do not currently have a mechanism in our society to address		gopher.black	70
ithese public social grievances of powerful people beyond seeking		gopher.black	70
ipunishment through their employment, platform, sponsorship, and		gopher.black	70
iother mechanisms that enable their power. Our public speech is		gopher.black	70
iunbalanced in power in favor of the rich and powerful, and so some		gopher.black	70
imeasures will necessarily be taken to counter it. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIs it right? Is it just? It is literally our only recourse. It's		gopher.black	70
ihard to make an ethical judgement without alternatives. I would		gopher.black	70
ilove a world where there were other means of public censor.		gopher.black	70
iHistory doesn't provide us many options without blood to model		gopher.black	70
iafter, though. Perhaps getting someone removed from a board of		gopher.black	70
idirectors isn't such a bad course.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd now that he has returned, just 18 months after the incident of		gopher.black	70
inote and without much change in public opinion, what are we to		gopher.black	70
ithink? Is his short statement on his blog about learning that		gopher.black	70
ipedophilia is wrong sufficient to let him off the hook for his		gopher.black	70
istatements minimizing sexual abuse? No, I don't think so. That may		gopher.black	70
iaddress his 2006 statements, but not those regarding Virginia		gopher.black	70
iRoberts Giuffre.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i                           - - -		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut what of the FSF and libre software in general? Without		gopher.black	70
iStallman at the helm will that effort fail?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHere first I will make an ethical statement that libre software is		gopher.black	70
inot important when juxtaposed by the physical safety of a human		gopher.black	70
ibeing. It is not important when juxtaposed with the safety of		gopher.black	70
iminors, of women, or in relation to sexual abuse. If Richard		gopher.black	70
iStallman was the one and only human being who could make libre		gopher.black	70
isoftware succeed or fail it is still not worth giving the man		gopher.black	70
ipower if it leads toward the increase in actual harm to actual		gopher.black	70
ihuman beings.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThankfully Stallman isn't that important. He has done quite a bit		gopher.black	70
iof work in the field. That is unarguable. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn political theory there is the idea of the Overton window [1].		gopher.black	70
iThere is a spectrum of political discourse from far extreme to		gopher.black	70
imoderate to far extreme in the other direction. The Overton window		gopher.black	70
irepresents the scope along this spectrum of politically acceptable		gopher.black	70
ipolicies. Notably, though, is the need for actors that exceed the		gopher.black	70
iboundaries of this window to widen it in their given direction.		gopher.black	70
iFor instance, an extreme leftist view allows for a more moderate		gopher.black	70
ileftist view to be politically acceptable. Without that extremist		gopher.black	70
iview the window will shift to the right and the moderate practice		gopher.black	70
iwill seem extreme.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
0[1] Overton window	/Overton window	gopherpedia.com	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI think this idea is applicable to more than politics, or perhaps		gopher.black	70
imore than traditional politics. The politics of technology and		gopher.black	70
ithir place in the world has extremists and Richard Stallman is		gopher.black	70
ione. The idea that all software and hardware on a user's system		gopher.black	70
imust fit his libre definition is one such view. It enables us to		gopher.black	70
ihave more reasonable discussions about the importance of the open		gopher.black	70
isource community, of public access to code, and intellectual		gopher.black	70
iproperty in general.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFor this reason I appreciate the Stallmans in the world, but not		gopher.black	70
ienough to give him a pass on other behavior. Thankfully we still		gopher.black	70
ihave plenty more assholes expanding our Overton window. We don't		gopher.black	70
ineed Stallman for that anymore.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn some cases it is difficult to separate art from artist when the		gopher.black	70
iartist does something heinous. This is most often if the art		gopher.black	70
irepresents a substantial and important cultural work, or if, as is		gopher.black	70
imore often the case, it is not an individual work but the work of		gopher.black	70
imany people. Take the Cosby Show as an example here. Do we		gopher.black	70
iwrite-off that television series because of the acts of Bill		gopher.black	70
iCosby? That unjustly punishes all of the other actors, staff, and		gopher.black	70
iproduction crews that put their work into a very good program to		gopher.black	70
ispite one man. This is a difficult ethical choice. In the case of		gopher.black	70
iRichard Stallman it was fairly simple to punish the man and ignore		gopher.black	70
ithe FSF itself 18 months ago. The choice of the board to reinstate		gopher.black	70
ihim, however, now stains the rest of them with the conscious		gopher.black	70
ichoice to value him over the harm his statements cause.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo that's my extremely long-winded way of saying I agree with		gopher.black	70
iMozilla and the Tor Project. We must censor Stallman and the FSF		gopher.black	70
iboard of directors. The means of doing so is their removal from		gopher.black	70
ithat position. Let it be done and done peacefully. Let them learn		gopher.black	70
ifrom it as Stallman learned that his 2006 statements were		gopher.black	70
idangerous and damaging. Maybe by removing them from power others		gopher.black	70
iwill learn as well. These ideas they're arguing are widening an		gopher.black	70
iOverton window around sexual consent that doesn't need widening.		gopher.black	70
iLets quiet the extremists and bring that window to a healthier		gopher.black	70
iplace.		gopher.black	70
