 ----------------------------------------
 Kindles
 January 13th, 2018
 ----------------------------------------
 
 I was researching Raspberry Pis as a potential off-grid computer
 hook-up. I wanted a wifi enabled, solar powered, ruggedized
 system. Preferrably it would have a local keyboard and display,
 but a model that I could only access over local wifi would be
 sufficient. Seriously air-gapped, like in-the-woods, style. That'd
 be neat.
 
 Anyway, I got sidetracked when I saw someone using a Kindle as
 a display for their pi. I had the first generation Kindle and
 I jailbroke it and was able to get a shell running at one time. It
 was neat, but pretty useless. The new ones, like my Kindle Voyage,
 have a much better display and faster refresh. It's actually
 useful as a terminal.
 
 So I went looking down that rabbit hole. I documented my process
 [0] but I wasn't able to get it working with the research I did so
 far. My Voyage is running a firmware that's too far upgraded to
 work with the published tricks. I've got a Kindle Touch downstairs
 that's not in use which I might try instead. I'll keep an eye out
 for new rooting methods too.
 
 I don't even care about the Pi part anymore. I just want to have
 a Kindle as a terminal screen. That will be fantastic!

 EDIT:

 I've switched to my Kindle Touch and we're getting progress. The
 jailbreak was easy but I struggled for a bit getting networking
 working properly. There's again 7,000 versions of advice for
 configuring this thing online, but I didn't find the key info
 until reading a readme inside a zip. The Kindle's system mounts
 read-only and the root password is jibberish by default. To get
 logged in, I had to set up an authorized key. With that done it
 was just a matter of connecting. I did get both USB networking
 and Wifi working. In the end, Wifi was way easier.

 I'll document all this new effort in the explorations notes, and
 I'll continue to share as features are added. Next up: app
 launchers.
 

1[0] Kindle Explorations	/users/tomasino/explorations/kindle	sdf.org	70

