i----------------------------------------	
iBackups are good	
iApril 14th, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iAlex Schroeder wrote recently [0] about backup formats. It was an	
iimportant reminder that since I'd moved everything (web, gopher,	
i... is that everything?) to a raspberry pi and configured it all	
ito a working state, I hadn't backed up the system. Granted, all	
ithe content I have is in git, but the system configuration itself	
iis worth quite a bit of work.	
i	
iEvidence of this can be found easily. Tonight after I did a backup	
i(more on that in a second) I rebooted the machine and discovered	
ithat bitlbee didn't start up correctly. I'm using kensanata's	
ifabulous bitlbee-mastodon plugin [1] to do all my social media	
ijunk via IRC. It's awesome, but it was a headache to get working.	
iFor some reason I couldn't get it to play nice with the apt	
iversion of Bitlbee, so I had to compile everything from source.	
iTonight when bitlbee stopped responding I ended up trying the	
iwhole process over again, eventually giving up on apt again, and	
ireinstalling from source. (This time I properly set up systemd.)	
i	
iMastodon in Weechat is a minor thing, but it's evidence enough	
ithat I don't want to have to rebuild the box. So, I unplugged the	
ipi for a few minutes, removed the SD card, plugged it into another	
imachine and 'dd' copied everything to an ISO. I don't think I need	
ito worry about doing that too often, thankfully, as it means	
idowntime for the box. If I ever needed to restore, I can flash	
ia new SD card, plug it in, then run update on all the git repos.	
iIt will pick up pretty much everything that way, unless I do some	
iserious system additions.	
i	
iI think I'll do the full SD backup semi-annually, maybe when	
iI change the batteries in my smoke detectors. It has a similar	
isort of safety-maintenance feel.	
i	
0[0] Alex Schroeder - Backup Format	2018-04-13_Backup_Format	alexschroeder.ch	70
h[1] Kensanata - Bitlbee-Mastodon	URL:http://github.com/kensanata/bitlbee-mastodon
