i----------------------------------------
iNorthern Exposure
iJanuary 04th, 2018
i----------------------------------------
i
iDo you have any TV shows in your life that speak to you with
ia mystical connection? How about books, films? I don't mean that
iyou love reading or watching, or that the story is amazing, but
irather that the story meets you where you are in your life and
igives something to you that you were missing. Maybe it highlights
ia situation you're feeling and a new way of looking at the world,
ior maybe it brings you around to focus on what's really important;
ibut whatever the effect it is profound and personal. I really hope
iyou do have one of those. It's something special.
i
iFor me, it's the early 90's TV show Northern Exposure. When I'm
istuck in my head and I need something to jar me loose, I'll put on
ia random episode. It's like a tarot reading or something. Without
ifail that episode is what I needed.
i
i"Up River" is my favorite episode of the series, where Joel heads
ito a remote native villiage called Manonash for a house call and
idecides to stay. It has had a profound impact on my life choices.
iIt has been at the heart of my inspirations to let go of my
icurrent life and go in a new direction. It is part of the reason
iI dropped out of college the first time around and joined the
iNavy. It was there when I started discerning a call to the
ipriesthood. It was there before I decided to propose to my wife.
i
iLikewise, "Fish Story", with its mystical experiences for Joel in
ithe belly of the beast, or Ruth-Anne's biker gang escapades, comes
ito me when I need to remember that my expectations don't matter
ifor shit in the face of what will come. But that's okay, and
ipretty often it's in letting go that we find growth. There's so
imuch spirituality underlying the repeatedly undercut expectations
iof the characters that I find something new in each viewing.
i
iI could go on, but this phlog isn't really about me outlining why
iI adore each specific episode of this random show. I hope that in
inaming it and sharing it you might acknowledge something in your
iown life that can help you the same way. If so, let me know. If
inothing comes to mind... well, you probably just need to watch
iNorthern Exposure.
i

