i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iHappy Easter		gopher.black	70
iApril 05th, 2026		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHappy Easter, gopher!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI've been on a pretty good run with personal projects and hobbies		gopher.black	70
ilately. Let me do a little round up!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
ihttps://films.tomasino.org		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis is my personal film rankings site. I had this idea a while		gopher.black	70
iback to create a system to track my films and create a master list		gopher.black	70
iof how I rate them. By using Glicko-2, the chess ELO scoring		gopher.black	70
isystem, I can set films up in little tournaments where they're		gopher.black	70
ipaired up 1v1 and I pick which one I prefer. Then the tourney		gopher.black	70
iscoring rules shift them around with their new chess scores and my		gopher.black	70
ilist gets more accurate over time. I've got this thing set up		gopher.black	70
ipulling my watched films list from Trakt.tv, and that's connected		gopher.black	70
ito my Plex. So it's pretty good at catching most of the films		gopher.black	70
iI watch automatically. My tourney builder has lots of config		gopher.black	70
ioptions, but the defaults are set up to priortize scoring films		gopher.black	70
iI haven't rated much, or lately, so they get pulled into the		gopher.black	70
irankings quickly. Also, when I input a new film it gets a baseline		gopher.black	70
iELO based on critic rating, so I'm not scoring everything from 0,		gopher.black	70
ibut drifting it off the norm per my own preferences. I'm really		gopher.black	70
iproud of this one.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
ihttps://www.hellshexagon.com		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHell's Hexagon is another film related site. This is a type of		gopher.black	70
isix-degrees game where you connect film actors to one another		gopher.black	70
ithrough shared films with other actors. Six degrees of Kevin Bacon		gopher.black	70
ibeing the original impetus here. This hexagon approach is		gopher.black	70
ia variant I came up with back in college with friends where you		gopher.black	70
ineed to connect three actors through 3 specific movies in a big		gopher.black	70
iring. You can't re-use actors or films and you're trying to get		gopher.black	70
ithe fewest possible steps to complete the hexagon. It's		gopher.black	70
isix-degrees on hard mode. Try it out! You are allowed to use sites		gopher.black	70
ilike IMDb. That's fine. Treat it as open-book. Play with friends.		gopher.black	70
iIt's more fun that way. Oh, and I set it up to get harder as the		gopher.black	70
idays of the week approach Sundays, just like crossword puzzles.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
ihttps://coach.tomasino.org		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMy Writing Coach app is one of the most robust open-source		gopher.black	70
iprojects I've put together lately. It's free to sign up, but		gopher.black	70
iyou'll want to bring your own API key to one of the major LLM		gopher.black	70
iproviders. The tool will help you through directed practice on		gopher.black	70
ifocused skills to grow in skill at your particular style of		gopher.black	70
iwriting. I built it for myself to level up my own fiction writing,		gopher.black	70
ibut it's good at business writing, marketing, grant proposals,		gopher.black	70
ietc. You can have multiple goals if you want, but each has their		gopher.black	70
iown pathway to growth. The AI/LLM use is minimal: forming prompts		gopher.black	70
iinto clear english, and formatting the deterministic feedback on		gopher.black	70
iyour writing into cogent forms and markup on your writing. The LLM		gopher.black	70
idoesn't do the grading itself. You can also clone the repo and run		gopher.black	70
iyour own. If you want, you can provide the LLM config for all		gopher.black	70
iusers instead of enabling the per-user API keys. That might be		gopher.black	70
inice for a small community.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
ihttps://github.com/jamestomasino/beep		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBack in the early 2000s there was a project from Nullsoft called		gopher.black	70
i'beep' that made computery noises when you did stuff on your		gopher.black	70
icomputer. The more memory or cpu usage, the more beeps. This is my		gopher.black	70
iattempt to recreate that effect. It's written in Ada, because		gopher.black	70
ithat's cool. It works really well on linux. I have a homebrew		gopher.black	70
iversion I'm working on for MacOS, but it's not working well yet.		gopher.black	70
iI don't have a mac, so I've been coding it in the dark and asking		gopher.black	70
ifriends to try it. I think I may have hit the end of that pathway,		gopher.black	70
iso I'll consider that functionality on hold until I can get a Mac		gopher.black	70
ior someone contributes to the project. Anyway, this is a toy app		gopher.black	70
iand it doesn't do anything other than create fun vibes. Try it		gopher.black	70
iout! I've not tried it on any BSDs yet. Someone let me know if it		gopher.black	70
iworks.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
ihttps://github.com/jamestomasino/vic-cipher		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBack in 2008-ish I wrote an encoder/decoder for the VIC Cipher in		gopher.black	70
iFlash. The guy who wrote the date component i used in the encoder		gopher.black	70
ireached out recently and asked if i'd ported it into any modern		gopher.black	70
itools. I hadn't, so I did. Here it is as an npm package. It'll		gopher.black	70
iwork with deno also. It's the coolest cipher in my opinion, and		gopher.black	70
iworth playing with. Since it's hand solveable with the right		gopher.black	70
iinstructions, it could make for an awesome thing to include in		gopher.black	70
iyour ttrpg, especially if you use a spy setting. Enjoy.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's also been some work on https://thehierophant.world and its		gopher.black	70
irelated projects. I'll have to write more on that subject soon.		gopher.black	70
iUntil then, enjoy the fun stuff!		gopher.black	70
