i----------------------------------------	
iAudio Books	
iMarch 23rd, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iI am a very active Audible user. I listen to a lot of audio books	
iand Amazon's service has the best selection at the cheapest prices	
iand offers the best players. I can listen on my phone or in the	
ibrowser and stay in sync. I can open up a kindle and have the book	
ipick up where the audio left off and vice-versa. This is some	
islick stuff and it's my justification for sticking with a company	
ithat represents a lot of things I despise.	
i	
iThere are some kinder looking alternative sources for the books	
ipopping up around the net, but no one comes close to offering all	
ithe things Audible does. That sucks because it reveals things	
iabout me I don't like. I have chosen convenience over principals.	
iI do it for my phone as well, which is a Pixel on Google Fi. Yuck.	
i	
iI may not have it in me to be the ultimate champion of	
istickin-it-to-the-man but I'd like to think I'm not a total	
ipushover either. I'll get back at the giants with really	
iuncomfortable sand in their shoes. Here's a few of the	
iall-but-meaningless things I do to justify my lifestyle to myself.	
i	
i1. I have an Amazon credit card. It gives me 5% back on purchases	
i   on Amazon.com and that's pretty much the only place I use it.	
i   Here's the thing, once you get those points Amazon suggests you	
i   redeem them on purchases. If you use your points on a purchase,	
i   you don't EARN points on that purchase. If you did, that 5%	
i   would really be 5.55555...%. Little bits matter, right? Well,	
i   that credit card is offered through Chase. If you go to the	
i   Chase website and redeem the points directly with them, you can	
i   apply those points in the form of a statement credit. Aka, you	
i   get that much money back, but it didn't in any way affect your	
i   future purchases with Amazon. So, just to ensure I get that	
i   extra 0.55555...% percent, when I'm about to make an Amazon	
i   purchase and I have points available, I'll go to Chase and	
i   redeem that many points off my bill as I make a normal purchase	
i   on Amazon. Take THAT giant corporation! I'm squeezing whole	
i   dollars off you!	
i	
i2. Audible books have stupid DRM on them. I don't care for that so	
i   any books I get from them I immediately strip to mp3s and	
i   back-up, just in case. Now and then I want to listen to	
i   something without Amazon's help. Now I can just play an mp3	
i   from the command-line. In fact, today I finally figured out	
i   a viable method for resuming playback without having to	
i   remember the timestamp.	
i	
i   $ mpv --save-position-on-quit	
i	
i   It will resume where you left off when you quit. If you do it	
i   on a directory it will remember where in the whole playlist you	
i   left off. Really solid solve! It supports time-scale changes	
i   too, so it's got everything you could want for playback. The	
i   only lack is syncing between devices. Not quite viable to	
i   replace Audible, but it's a piece of the puzzle.	
i	
iI forget where I was going with this phlog. I like audio books and	
imaybe one day I'll be able to cut out Amazon and Google	
icompletely. Until then...	
i	
