i----------------------------------------	
iDistributism	
iMarch 27th, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iI've been thinking about politics too much lately, so I thought	
iI'd liven things up by jumping into economics! I'll keep this one	
ishort, I promise.	
i	
iI'm no fan of capitalism, especially "free" market economics. It	
iis tantamount to slavery both in its literal abuse of the third	
iworld or the consolidation of wealth into the corporate leading to	
iwage-slavery in the first world. The appeal of endless growth is	
iclear, but it's so obviously unsustainable that I can't keep up	
ithe lie to myself. Eventually you will run out of peoples to	
iexploit and the workers will have no money to spend. It will	
iconsume itself or transform from economic oligarchy into political	
ioligarchy.	
i	
iNo, the modern fascination with democracy is mirrored by the lust	
ifor wealth that capitalism promises. In reality, the regulation	
ithat free-market champions condemn are the very things that have	
ikept us from the brink thus far. The world economy teeters on the	
iedge of absolute ruin and it will be the greedy, get-rich-quick,	
ithat take us all there.	
i	
iThere are alternatives, and they don't all involve us devolving	
iinto an agrestic commune. Distributism [0] is my economic	
istructure of choice. Here's the extremely brief key points:	
i	
i  - personal property is a right of the individual	
i  - don't assign to higher association what lesser and subordinate	
i    organizations can do	
i  - small production and local culture is favored over central	
i    systems and mass production	
i	
i  AKA, keep it small and owned by the workers.	
i	
iThe best examples I can give in today's culture are credit unions	
iand farming co-ops.	
i	
iOf course there's a lot more to it, and no system in place today	
ifunctions in its pure form. We have some elements of distributism	
iin the United States in the form of anti-trust laws. Still, I'd	
iprefer more.	
i	
iCapitalism has no soul, no morality. Distributism shares the	
imorality of the community its attached to. I like that.	
i	
0[0] Distributism on Gopherpedia	/Distributism	gopherpedia.com	70
