i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iItalian Citizenship		gopher.black	70
iJuly 21st, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iToday I am officially an Italian citizen. I went though an		gopher.black	70
iextremely long process to claim my citizenship via a process		gopher.black	70
icalled jure sanguinis. I proved, in essence, that I have always		gopher.black	70
ibeen an Italian citizen by way of birth since my ancestor who		gopher.black	70
iimmegrated had children before becoming naturalized. Thus, his		gopher.black	70
ikids were born as Italians on foreign soil.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMy son also has Italian citizenship as a result, and we're going		gopher.black	70
ito file for my wife to get hers via marriage. I'll be getting		gopher.black	70
ia second passport soon, and when the dust settles, we'll be		gopher.black	70
ileaving the United States.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIf you read this phlog, you probably already know that our		gopher.black	70
idestination is Iceland, which will allow me residency now since it		gopher.black	70
iis part of the Schengen Agreement, just like Italy. Moving to		gopher.black	70
iIceland as an American is a giant pain in the butt, but as an		gopher.black	70
iItalian it should be quite simple.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis made my whole day, obviously, but it also helps me out in		gopher.black	70
isome bigger stress areas. I've been stressing about what to do		gopher.black	70
inext in my career. I have an opportunity to potentially move into		gopher.black	70
ia CTO role with a startup, which fascinates me and would challenge		gopher.black	70
ime quite a bit. It would also be an increased investment on my		gopher.black	70
itime, and I already work a lot. The job I'm at now is wearing on		gopher.black	70
ime more and more, and I don't see it as sustainable for very much		gopher.black	70
ilonger. The move to Iceland represents a refocusing of priorities		gopher.black	70
ioff of work and onto life. I'm planning on taking a significant		gopher.black	70
ipay cut, living more simply, and focusing on the family and		gopher.black	70
ihobbies. Since that timeline is finally "for real", it means that		gopher.black	70
imy current work troubles have an end in sight. That is powerful.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhile I finish getting all the papers in order for the family,		gopher.black	70
iwe'll also be selling our house and moving into a much smaller		gopher.black	70
iapartment. We'll get rid of most of our things, place most of the		gopher.black	70
ileftovers into storage, and live on what we intend to ship. Once		gopher.black	70
iall that's in place, I'll be quitting my job, heading to Iceland		gopher.black	70
ion my own ahead of the family, and we'll live off the house sale		gopher.black	70
imoney until I can find a new job, get us a new apartment, and		gopher.black	70
iarrange to move them over and meet me.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI'm utterly thrilled!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOh, if any of you reading this are Icelandic, live or know someone		gopher.black	70
iin Iceland, or in any way could help me find something		gopher.black	70
icode-related to do in Iceland to get us settled I'd be extremely		gopher.black	70
igrateful. I run a technology team of web developers, front & back		gopher.black	70
iend. I also act as the digital strategy lead (pharmaceutical		gopher.black	70
imarketing) and head of analytics & reporting. I can code in JS		gopher.black	70
iextremely well, and prefer using vue, but can learn whatever. My		gopher.black	70
iphp & python skills are a little rusty, but I can jump back into		gopher.black	70
ithat in a heartbeat. Ruby? I guess I could do that too. I'm not		gopher.black	70
imuch of a windows development guy, though.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iNeed a programmer? Need someone to run a dev team? Need an		gopher.black	70
ianalyst? I'm also good at balancing stuff on my chin!		gopher.black	70
