i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iOn the separation of artists from their art		gopher.black	70
iFebruary 18th, 2019		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA stray boost on Mastodon got me thinking about the value of works		gopher.black	70
iby horrible people. Do we damn the works, the art, the music, the		gopher.black	70
ifilms once we discover something damning about the creator which?		gopher.black	70
iDo you separate the art from the artist and think of each as		gopher.black	70
idistinct?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI generally try for separation and I'll explain why. For me it		gopher.black	70
icomes down to four things:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i - Ownership of ideas		gopher.black	70
i - Compassion		gopher.black	70
i - Outrage		gopher.black	70
i - Pragmatism		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe most complex idea floating around in my head has to do with		gopher.black	70
ithe idea of ownership of artistic works. Does an artist own their		gopher.black	70
icreation? While one might quickly argue in the affirmative, that		gopher.black	70
iis owing to a legal point of view. Ownership has a cognitive		gopher.black	70
iinfluence on our relationship to ideas which goes beyond the		gopher.black	70
icourts and governments and fits more squarely into cultural mores		gopher.black	70
iand moral frameworks. How you react to someone else's pen might		gopher.black	70
ivary wildly depending on your cultural upbringing, for instance.		gopher.black	70
iWhere are lines drawn? How firm are they? Is there a gray area?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLets take a specific example of a disgraced artist and his body of		gopher.black	70
iwork: Bill Cosby and the Cosby Show. Given the vague nature of		gopher.black	70
iownership, it's easy to attribute something of that sort here.		gopher.black	70
iBill Cosby was the star of the Cosby Show, certainly, and while he		gopher.black	70
imight now own the rights to it, he was fundamental in its		gopher.black	70
icreation. Great!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut there's more to it. Hundreds and thousands of other people		gopher.black	70
icontributed to the show as well. Just considering actors alone,		gopher.black	70
ican we really dismiss the contributions of the other co-stars?		gopher.black	70
iSome of the children literally spent their own childhoods		gopher.black	70
idedicated to that art. They have equal legal ownership of the		gopher.black	70
iproduct, and clearly as much personal investment upon creation.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's also the ancient idea that art is created for the people.		gopher.black	70
iEven our copyright law and patent protections in the US are		gopher.black	70
idesigned to recoup the losses of research and development of the		gopher.black	70
iidea, not to form some perpetual ownership of intellectual		gopher.black	70
iproperty. That would be ridiculous! Ideas belong to the people!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo where is the line here? Is it gray? Do we grant the ultimate		gopher.black	70
iposition to Cosby because his name is on it? Certainly, if we		gopher.black	70
ican't attribute it to him then we can't in good conscience dismiss		gopher.black	70
ithe art with the artist. If it's not his, then he has no impact on		gopher.black	70
iit. If we find out that Bill Cosby went to a certain high school,		gopher.black	70
ishould we shun it? Should we shut it down? It's irrelevant, right?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt would also be a disservice to those others who were involved.		gopher.black	70
iDo we punish them? It was their art as well.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut now we're approaching my second point: compassion. Let's		gopher.black	70
iassume compassion for possible other artists (who may have		gopher.black	70
isuffered from the disgraced artist!) is a given. Besides that		gopher.black	70
ipoint is the subject of the artist. This part may not be popular		gopher.black	70
iwith everyone, but I think it's important to keep out hope for the		gopher.black	70
iforgiveness of the asshole. This is a Christian ideal and one		gopher.black	70
iI can't always live up to, but I think it's important to aim for.		gopher.black	70
iIf an artist is disgraced along with all their works then the		gopher.black	70
imessage to them and to everyone is that a horrible thing can		gopher.black	70
icompletely define you. Any other good you might have done is wiped		gopher.black	70
iaway as a result. What hope is there for redemption in that? What		gopher.black	70
ilesson to bother trying? I try to have compassion for the artist		gopher.black	70
ihere by not throwing out their good works with the bad. Let their		gopher.black	70
ireputation be damned. Let them suffer prison time if appropriate,		gopher.black	70
ibut don't throw away the good with the bad!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd that brings me to my third idea: outrage! Why the actual fuck		gopher.black	70
iwould I give up something I enjoy because the creator was a dick?		gopher.black	70
iWhy am I punishing myself for something that asshat did? Fuck		gopher.black	70
ithat! The Cosby Show is fucking brilliant and funny as hell. It's		gopher.black	70
istill relevant and touching and a genuine joy. That selfish fucker		gopher.black	70
ican go fuck-off to prison now and suffer for what he did, but he's		gopher.black	70
inot taking Rudy from me.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOh, and then there's pragmatism. I've been talking about the Cosby		gopher.black	70
iShow up until now, but how about the douche-nozzle that invented		gopher.black	70
ithe transistor? Don't know about his brand of awful? [0] I'm not		gopher.black	70
iabout to give up using electronics because of some guy whose name		gopher.black	70
iI don't really care to know. His ideas belong to the people. I'm		gopher.black	70
igoing to use stuff, watch stuff, listen to stuff, and while I may		gopher.black	70
ion occasion also throw up a finger toward the heavens while doing		gopher.black	70
iso, IMMA be me.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
0[0] William Shockley	/William Shockley	gopherpedia.com	70
