 ----------------------------------------
 Christmas Updates
 December 26th, 2017
 ----------------------------------------
 
 Do you have friends or family who send you one of those
 end-of-year newsletters as a Christmas card? If you're not
 familiar, they tend to be summaries of the major events and
 achievements of the year for each family member. They're often
 formatted badly and feature a giant family photo as a header. All
 in all, super cheesy.
 
 I thought about writing one of those here as a Gopher Christmas
 Update, but I think I'll spare everyone. Instead I just wanted to
 drop a couple notes about how my Christmas day went.
 
 My son is five and the absolute perfect age for Christmas
 awesomeness. He was really into everything about the season from
 the start. This year he was paying attention to all the holiday
 songs and asking us what they were about. We watched about 15
 Christmas movies, including such classics as Home Alone and Ernest
 Saves Christmas. We drove around to look at lights, and we looked
 at Google Earth to talk about Santa and his travels. Life has been
 pretty good this season.
 
 On Christmas morning he had a bunch of presents to open and a few
 surprises from Santa. The toys were all a big hit and he managed
 to play with just about everything all in one day. Although there
 were a lot of things he asked for, there are two surprise gifts
 that I expect to become the favorites in the long run:
 
   1) Legos! I got the classic lego box with 144 pieces for him.
      I don't want him to get into Lego Sets. They're too expensive
      and too restrictive. He seems to be of the same mind. He
      built a whole city last night, complete with rotating
      restaurant tower and space ships. In a couple months I'll
      bust out all my legacy legos and toss them his way as well.
 
   2) GameBoy Color! I grabbed one of these at a cool game shop in
      Myrtle Beach. I also picked up all 3 Zelda games for the
      system, Pokemon Silver, and Super Mario World. He's still
      a bit young for the games, but he likes watching me play
      Nintendo (he has my old system) and he tries occasionally.
      I expect this to sit around for most of the year, but it'll
      prime him for some amazing classic gaming. 
      
      I'm working as hard as I can to build an appreciation for
      imagination in his play and games. The classic NES and GB
      games fit right in. They're simplistic, but also challenging.
      He worked with me, directing my choices, as we beat The
      Guardian Legend earlier this year. I think it's good for his
      growth to experience games that really challenge you and
      don't let you just skip the hard parts or show you how to get
      by with a ghost. Trial and error and perserverence!
 
 Speaking of games that require perserverence, I beat the first
 playthrough of Escape Goat last week and I'm working on the second
 set now. There's some insanely tricky boards. If you like puzzle
 games, or goats, or both, pick it up on GOG or Steam.
 
 I hope you all had a good holiday. Cheers
 

