i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iA Purpose in Life		gopher.black	70
iDecember 18th, 2021		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHow do you find your purpose in life? That's a question that just		gopher.black	70
ipopped up on the Fediverse. I wanted to respond right away, but		gopher.black	70
iI suspect my thoughts on the subject are going to expand beyond		gopher.black	70
ia reasonable reply-toot. Let's explore the question together here!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFirst of all, the question was immediately followed by a sentiment		gopher.black	70
iabout searching for happiness, suggesting that a purpose in life		gopher.black	70
iand being happy are related ideas, maybe even the same thing. It		gopher.black	70
imay be the case that finding purpose leads to happiness, but		gopher.black	70
iI would caution against drawing those parallels too soon, for as		gopher.black	70
iyou'll see, there's a possibility doing so may blind you to your		gopher.black	70
iown possibilities.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn religious life we talk about finding ones purpose by using the		gopher.black	70
iterm "vocation." That word harkens back to Latin roots from the		gopher.black	70
iidea of a "calling". Whether you are religious or not, I think the		gopher.black	70
iterm does a good job representing the idea that an individual may		gopher.black	70
ibe aligned well, or be well-suited to succeed at a certain		gopher.black	70
ioccupation or activity. If you believe in a higher power, you may		gopher.black	70
iunderstand it as being meant to follow a path, or that you're led		gopher.black	70
ito it. If not, it may just be something that naturally aligns with		gopher.black	70
iyour skills, morals, and sense of being. A vocation is a powerful		gopher.black	70
iidea.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhich is cool and all, but how do you determine what YOU are meant		gopher.black	70
ito do? Should you expect a big clear sign that says, "Dear		gopher.black	70
ijackass, you should be a fire fighter. k thnx bye!" Even in		gopher.black	70
ireligious literature that sort of calling is super-rare. Instead		gopher.black	70
iyou should expect to have to go about it the hard way. That means		gopher.black	70
ifiguring things out on your own through exploration, testing, and		gopher.black	70
isome deep introspection (and prayer if you're into that sort of		gopher.black	70
ithing).		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhere do you start? I'd recommend a simple list to get started:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  - Needs of the world		gopher.black	70
i  - Your skills & gifts		gopher.black	70
i  - Your true desires		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe needs of the world are wide and varied. Some are enormous		gopher.black	70
itasks, like fighting climate change. Others are smaller and more		gopher.black	70
ilocal, like volunteering at a food pantry. Everywhere you look		gopher.black	70
ithere are people in need, animals in need, nature in need,		gopher.black	70
iprobably even charismatic rocks in need. Maybe you feel		gopher.black	70
ia particular affinity toward one of these needs. Maybe you feel		gopher.black	70
ilike your abilities are well suited to address one of them.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThinking about what you're good at or uniquely qualified to offer		gopher.black	70
iis another angle for approaching your path. Do you like to work		gopher.black	70
iwith your hands? Are you personable? Do you love spreadsheets? Can		gopher.black	70
iyou juggle? It really doesn't matter what the skills are, there's		gopher.black	70
iprobably a place they can be applied.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd maybe it's neither of the above. Maybe there's something		gopher.black	70
istirring deep in your heart that sounds damned interesting. Is		gopher.black	70
ithere an idea that persists inside you, itching away in a little		gopher.black	70
ivoice? Is there a subtle yearning to try it, to do something new?		gopher.black	70
iThat may be a deep or true desire of your heart, or it may be		gopher.black	70
isomething else entirely. You'll need to learn how to test it.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAll of these ideas above are a starting point, not an actual		gopher.black	70
ianswer. Once you have something that has sunk its hooks into you,		gopher.black	70
ihowever tentatively, it's time to test that voice to make sure		gopher.black	70
iit's coming from the right place. Once again in religious terms we		gopher.black	70
icall this testing the spirits, and once again the principles apply		gopher.black	70
ieven if you are non-religious.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere are several techniques for testing a decision. Here's		gopher.black	70
ia couple:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i1. Imagine you are very old. You've reached the end of your days		gopher.black	70
i   on Earth. It's time to wrap it up any moment now. Here at the		gopher.black	70
i   end you've taken a moment to think back on your life that		gopher.black	70
i   you've lived. Think about that decision you made and imagine		gopher.black	70
i   how it played out. Do you feel proud of that? Does it give you		gopher.black	70
i   a sense of consolation to have done it or does it leave you		gopher.black	70
i   cold?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i   Now flip the script. Take some time to clear your head, then		gopher.black	70
i   imagine the exact same scenario, but imagine you chose		gopher.black	70
i   differently. How does that make you feel, looking back?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i2. Test the spirit for its communion. Does this decision bring you		gopher.black	70
i   closer to the people you love? Does it bring you closer to the		gopher.black	70
i   community? Does it bring you closer to your faith? Does your		gopher.black	70
i   choice build up those around you or does it build up you		gopher.black	70
i   yourself? Think about those relationships that are important to		gopher.black	70
i   you and think about how the decision feels next to those		gopher.black	70
i   relationships.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOne thing you'll notice here that we're not looking at is		gopher.black	70
ihappiness. Focusing on a decision that brings you joy can easily		gopher.black	70
imask the harm it's doing to those around you, to your		gopher.black	70
irelationships with those you care about or your own spirituality.		gopher.black	70
iFinding your path will hopefully bring you a sense of peace, which		gopher.black	70
ithen should bring happiness with it, but don't use it as a way to		gopher.black	70
itest the spirits. It's too easy to be misled.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOne other thing I want to mention is the freedom to give up your		gopher.black	70
iown control. In most of the ideas above there's a sense that you		gopher.black	70
iare choosing something for yourself based on some logical		gopher.black	70
icriteria. If that's not resonating with you, or if it's not		gopher.black	70
idrawing you to something strongly, you may want to try		gopher.black	70
isurrendering yourself to a different sort of freedom. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSometimes our own sense of control is blocking us from the		gopher.black	70
ipossibilities of what we can really accomplish. We think we are		gopher.black	70
igood at X, so we do X. We can't imagine we'd be good at Y, so we		gopher.black	70
inever try Y. Perhaps Y even scares us. We're not well equipped for		gopher.black	70
iit. We don't have those skills.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBy actively choosing something new that scares us, that we feel		gopher.black	70
iunequipped to handle on our own, we have no choice but to		gopher.black	70
isurrender to the task and hand over that control. We might say		gopher.black	70
ithat we put it in God's hands. We might say that we're leaving our		gopher.black	70
icomfort zone.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iTry this: When you're thinking about the needs of the world or		gopher.black	70
ilistening to those sneaky desires deep in your heart pay close		gopher.black	70
iattention to anything that bubbles up that scares you. Working		gopher.black	70
iwith kids? Working in hospice care? Visiting the incarcerated?		gopher.black	70
iWhatever it might be, if it seems impossible and frightening don't		gopher.black	70
idismiss it. Give some consideration to testing it out. Imagine		gopher.black	70
iyourself on your death bed looking back on it. Give it some		gopher.black	70
ifreedom to be possible for a moment.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFinally I'd like to reassure you that there's not just one answer.		gopher.black	70
iYou're not called to do one and only one thing. You will be called		gopher.black	70
iagain and again. You can reinvent yourself. You can expand to be		gopher.black	70
imore and do more. You can change, and you WILL change. Even right		gopher.black	70
inow at this very moment.		gopher.black	70
