i----------------------------------------	
iPatience	
iMarch 16th, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iSomeone recently asked for advice on developing patience. I'm	
ifairly certain it was jynx (edit: link [0]), but his phlog is down	
iat the moment. Regardless, I've got some practice in that area and	
ibelieve I can offer some advice.	
i	
i1. Treat patience like a skill to be developed. That means you	
i   need to practice it. It doesn't mean you need to dive into the	
i   deep end right away (to mix metaphors). There's books on the	
i   topic as it relates to will power, but this is the key concept	
i   at the heart of all of them. "Will power (or patience) is like	
i   a muscle (or skill), so exercise it (or practice it).	
i	
i   Specifically: Buy a Kendama game [1]. Do not just start using	
i   it blindly, though. Watch a couple youtube videos to get the	
i   idea, then practice it. I recommend practicing it with your	
i   off-hand and set goals that are a little bit frustrating, but	
i   not impossible. "I will not stop using this until I can	
i   complete this challenge at least 5 times in a row." Do not	
i   succumb to your frustration. Push it that little extra.	
i	
i2. Meditate. Give your mind some time to relax and clean itself	
i   up. The type of meditation isn't actually that important, it's	
i   the practice of deliberate thinking that will help. Still,	
i   don't choose something frustrating here. This is your mental	
i   rest equivalent of the patience exercsises above. Just set	
i   a timer for 5-10 minutes, sit down and let your mind wander. If	
i   find you are focusing in on any one thing for more than	
i   a moment, gently remind yourself that you can come back to it	
i   after the timer goes off. Reset yourself by clearing out the	
i   brain completely for a brief moment. Here's a trick to make	
i   that happen super fast: Think to yourself, "what will my next	
i   thought be?"	
i	
i3. Do not expect infinite patience. You're not super-human, so	
i   don't be hard on yourself if you reach your end. Try to hang on	
i   a bit longer and go away from the situation if you can. Don't	
i   beat yourself up. That will make it harder to get better.	
i	
i4. Vent. Whatever technique you have to blow off steam, use it.	
i   Using yet another metaphor, think of patience like a big empty	
i   tank inside you that can swallow the frustrations of the day.	
i   You could keep building a bigger and bigger tank, or you can	
i   drain it. Resting does that, but so can venting. Blow off	
i   that frustration steam and make your job easier.	
i	
iGood luck, person who I am pretty sure is jynx.	
i	
0[0] tfurrows - All Patience	/~tfurrows/phlog/2018/MAR2018/all_patience.txt	grex.org	70
h[1] Kendama	URL:http://kendamausa.com/
