i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iPerfection		gopher.black	70
iNovember 13th, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iVery soon I'll be giving up my role as a manager and moving back		gopher.black	70
iinto the world of sole contributer. For the past five or six years		gopher.black	70
iI've been a VP level director of a team or teams of developers. At		gopher.black	70
ione point in time I had 24 direct reports across three offices.		gopher.black	70
iThese days I just have 3 direct reports at one office. Regardless,		gopher.black	70
imy role has been primarily focused on facilitation, management,		gopher.black	70
icoaching and strategy, with a heavy dollop of analytics work. It's		gopher.black	70
inot that I don't get my hands dirty; I code all the time. It's		gopher.black	70
ijust that I'm typically jumping in to solve a single problem, or		gopher.black	70
icreate a framework, or rescue something gone astray. I rarely find		gopher.black	70
imyself in the position of building things from scratch.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's freelance, of course. I just completed a landing page for		gopher.black	70
ia pharma company that will be launching shortly. It was an excuse		gopher.black	70
ifor me to learn the newest CSS features out there, CSS-Grid, and		gopher.black	70
ito make sure I'm still sharp. Everything went exceptionally well,		gopher.black	70
iand I should have a nice little side-money from it soon.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWith the move out of the country I wanted to refocus on what		gopher.black	70
iI enjoy doing and what keeps the stress level low. My dad was		gopher.black	70
ia work-a-holic, and I could easily see myself falling into the		gopher.black	70
itrap. I'm staring at a career crossroads: do I continue on my		gopher.black	70
ipresent trajectory and take on C-suite positions and eventually		gopher.black	70
istart my own company, or do I take a step back and focus on family		gopher.black	70
iand friends at the cost of salary. It's not an easy decision.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI'm hoping Iceland can be a disconnect from a life of things.		gopher.black	70
iI don't want all this stuff I've gathered. I have too many		gopher.black	70
ihobbies, too many computers, too many projects. I want to take		gopher.black	70
ia walk with the family and spend more time seeing my son smile.		gopher.black	70
iWhile I don't want the stress of bills piling up, we're well past		gopher.black	70
ithe level of comfortable living. I don't need more if we're just		gopher.black	70
igoing to spend it.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo with the move to Iceland I'm giving up my VP title and my		gopher.black	70
imanagerial duties. I'm taking a step back into a senior developer		gopher.black	70
ior lead architect role (whatever we decide to call it). I'll be		gopher.black	70
ibuilding things again and taking a pay cut to align. This feels		gopher.black	70
igood and right, at least for now.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd it gives me the opportunity to think about what I enjoy about		gopher.black	70
icoding. I'm a perfectionist in the work I do professionally. When		gopher.black	70
igiven a task I dig deep and try to solve it in ways that		gopher.black	70
ianticipate things the designers never dreamed of. I anticipate the		gopher.black	70
iways testers will try to break things. I focus intensely on		gopher.black	70
ipixel-perfect design execution without any compromise of speed or		gopher.black	70
iaccessibility. I want every piece of throw-away advertising trash		gopher.black	70
iI build to be a perfect specimen.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iToday I built a digital sales aid for pharmaceutical reps		gopher.black	70
idetailing a drug that treats ALS. It's a tool that shows off payer		gopher.black	70
idata and coverage information relevant to the doctor being		gopher.black	70
idetailed. The original plan was for a national-level print piece,		gopher.black	70
ibut we managed to get the company to send us a feed of their raw		gopher.black	70
idata. I worked on some analysis in R and generated specific		gopher.black	70
ibreakdowns for their list and found an elegant way to side-load		gopher.black	70
iit into their presentations. The reps have extremely personalized		gopher.black	70
idigital pieces now, which will give the home office interesting		gopher.black	70
ianalytics on the use of the tools and allow us to further segment		gopher.black	70
itheir targets by degree of concern about access and coverage, if		gopher.black	70
ithe client bothers to look at the data we collect anyway.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhile the content I'm building isn't particularly interesting		gopher.black	70
iI found ways to challenge myself, level it up, and focused on		gopher.black	70
iperfection. That gives me a great deal of satisfaction. When I can		gopher.black	70
ibuild something (even something dumb) perfectly in the first try,		gopher.black	70
ithat's a great feeling. I'm looking forward to more of that soon.		gopher.black	70
