i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iAbortion		gopher.black	70
iJune 26th, 2022		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis is a post about my thoughts on abortion. It is personal and		gopher.black	70
inot intended to persuade. I'm writing it because I am, on		gopher.black	70
ioccasion, asked about my opinion, and thought it helpful to write		gopher.black	70
ithem down.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLet this brief introduction serve as a content warning.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i* * * * *		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLet's start with the easy bits:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere are times when an abortion is absolutely, unequivocally, and		gopher.black	70
iunambiguously the moral choice. For instance, if the fetus is		gopher.black	70
inon-viable or if the birth with result in the death of the fetus		gopher.black	70
iand parent. There is no grey area here. By performing a medical		gopher.black	70
iprocedure we can help save life and reduce suffering.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWith that very basic example I thereby demonstrate that there is		gopher.black	70
ino right and ethical argument against abortion in all situations.		gopher.black	70
iThe act itself cannot be considered evil for it can in some		gopher.black	70
isituations be used for good. We must look further at the situation		gopher.black	70
iand recognize that there's more to this than a black & white		gopher.black	70
inarrative. (Duh.)		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhat situations affect the ethical choice for or against birth?		gopher.black	70
iThere's a huge range of circumstances from family planning issues,		gopher.black	70
ito health, safety, abuse, and money. This is where I feel the		gopher.black	70
iopportunity is best to save lives and reduce suffering.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLets take just a few examples here:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe teenagers who accidentally conceive -- currently face		gopher.black	70
iincredibly difficult life decisions while their own bodies and		gopher.black	70
ibrains are still developing. The realities of modern America mean		gopher.black	70
ithe potential for difficulties with families, poverty, lack of		gopher.black	70
isupport for continued education, and lack of tooling and services		gopher.black	70
ifor the child. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThese things are addressable by our society. A world that embraces		gopher.black	70
iand supports these young people, provides the safety nets,		gopher.black	70
ichildcare services, and opportunities to continue to improve		gopher.black	70
ithemselves and the futures of their children would create an		gopher.black	70
ienvironment where the accidental pregnancy wouldn't come with such		gopher.black	70
ia sense of shock and fear. That would lead to less people seeing		gopher.black	70
iabortion as their only path.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA family that's struggling to support the kids they have may see		gopher.black	70
isimilar benefits if only social services are improved. The		gopher.black	70
iunexpected extra child is now not a fearful burden, but an		gopher.black	70
iopportunity.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut there are other situations that we must face as a reality.		gopher.black	70
iRape, incest, abusive relationships. Legislating against abortions		gopher.black	70
ifurther punishes the victims of these crimes and causes great		gopher.black	70
isuffering. It is undeniable. Forced birthing is quite literally		gopher.black	70
ia war crime and crime against humanity, as defined in the 1998		gopher.black	70
iRome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC Statute). It		gopher.black	70
iis unconscionable to force women into this situation for the sake		gopher.black	70
iof a child's life: a child which after birth is given no further		gopher.black	70
ithought. It is a false display of moralism made at the cost of		gopher.black	70
ianother.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd finally, there are people who become pregnant who just don't		gopher.black	70
iwant to be. There is no quandary for them. There is no situation		gopher.black	70
ichange which would put them in a position to want to have a child.		gopher.black	70
iHere is the hardest of all situations for a third party to wrap		gopher.black	70
itheir head around. The life of a child vs what appears to be		gopher.black	70
inothing. But it's never nothing, is it? We are all complex		gopher.black	70
icreatures with a lifetime of thoughts and feelings that led to who		gopher.black	70
iwe are today. These experiences are intricate, complicated, and		gopher.black	70
icarry a vast depth to them. These depths are plumbed in therapy by		gopher.black	70
imillions daily, and though issues may seem mundane to those in		gopher.black	70
ipassing they are whirlwinds of vital importance that make or break		gopher.black	70
ipeople. Our glimpse at someone's situation is not even seeing the		gopher.black	70
iiceberg above the surface, let alone below. We don't even sense		gopher.black	70
ithe chill in the air. We cannot understand from our vantage, and		gopher.black	70
ithus, as hard as it may be, we cannot decide for that person.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI want there to be fewer abortions. I want a world that makes it		gopher.black	70
isafe for children to come into being and be cared for no matter		gopher.black	70
iwhat the situation of the parents. I want mental health services		gopher.black	70
ito be available to everyone who needs to talk because maybe, just		gopher.black	70
imaybe, some more people will say yes to the child.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI am pro-life. I am against abortion. And yet, I believe it is		gopher.black	70
iabsolutely wrong to legislate forced-births. We make abortion		gopher.black	70
idiminish through compassion in our society, not through fascism.		gopher.black	70
