i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iLiving as an RPG - Textbooks		gopher.black	70
iSeptember 28th, 2019		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI think about my own life in terms of roleplaying games. I'm not		gopher.black	70
ialone in this. I bet some of you reading do the same thing. When		gopher.black	70
iI learn a new skill, I am totally thinking about it being added to		gopher.black	70
imy character sheet as I draw a 1 in a little column. The skills		gopher.black	70
iI choose to collect are probably a little skewed toward things		gopher.black	70
ithat are more useful in a fantasy adventure than in real life, but		gopher.black	70
ithat's not so bad. I once helped a friend get back into their		gopher.black	70
ihouse when they locked themselves out, so who says lockpicking		gopher.black	70
iisn't practical!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt's not just skills, though. I travel and move through life ready		gopher.black	70
ito pounce on the newest quest that comes along. "Quests aren't		gopher.black	70
ireal," you say? Screw that jazz. You're just not looking hard		gopher.black	70
ienough. When a ridiculous opportunity arises and you say yes,		gopher.black	70
iBAM!, you're on a quest. Max out that XP and level up, my dudes.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFor those of you who aren't quite ready to up-and-move to another		gopher.black	70
icountry, or join the military on a lark, or enter religious life,		gopher.black	70
ior go live on a boat in the middle of a lake, or whatever, you can		gopher.black	70
istill power-level by using some of the sweet loot available to you		gopher.black	70
iat your local library. That's right, I'm talking about textbooks.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSimply read these magic tomes from the start to the end to add		gopher.black	70
ia skill rank in whatever subject you desire. That's it! And it's		gopher.black	70
ifree! Maybe the library doesn't carry the subject you want and the		gopher.black	70
ilatest volume is like $7,000 at the campus bookstore... so get an		gopher.black	70
iold version online for pennies. You think the information in Intro		gopher.black	70
ito Physics has changed that much in 10 years?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhen you're not in school anymore it might not occur to you that		gopher.black	70
iyou are still allowed access to textbooks. Just because it wasn't		gopher.black	70
iassigned in a class doesn't mean you can't just pick it up on your		gopher.black	70
iown. It doesn't have to be related to work, or a hobby, or		gopher.black	70
ianything at all. Maybe you always sucked at math in school. Maybe		gopher.black	70
iyou can't remember the first thing about Algebra. If you want to		gopher.black	70
ifix that, just get a textbook. Seriously. You're older, wiser, and		gopher.black	70
iknow how to apply your brain meats to stuff. Pick it up and start		gopher.black	70
iat the beginning. The book will teach you. That's what it's for.		gopher.black	70
iYou won't have a teacher, so instead you'll have to,		gopher.black	70
iI dunno...Google it. Hit up Khan Academy, or wikipedia, or bug		gopher.black	70
isomeone on a Tilde server. It's not hard. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThat's the secret of the whole fucking universe, by the way. It's		gopher.black	70
inot that hard. Nothing is. It just takes some time to learn. Start		gopher.black	70
iat the beginning and build up the knowledge.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iYou want to know how to build rockets? Do it. Like, for real. The		gopher.black	70
iknowledge to do so is free. What else are you working on that's so		gopher.black	70
iimportant that you can't crack a book in the bathroom for a few		gopher.black	70
iminutes while you do your business?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLearn new skills, level up, take on new quests, be heroes.		gopher.black	70
