i----------------------------------------	
iSize	
iApril 09th, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
itfurrows recently wrote [0] about about the American need for more	
ispace, more square footage, and generally bigger and better	
ithings. You might harken it back to the "go West" mentality and an	
iassumption born from multi-generational standard-of-living growth,	
ibut I have no real clue where it comes from. And tfurrows is	
iabsolutely right when he says you get looked at funny for defying	
ithat pattern.	
i	
0[0] tfurrows - square feet	/~tfurrows/phlog/akr_squareFeet.txt	circumlunar.space	70
i	
iMy dad certainly doesn't understand my desire to simplify,	
idownsize (right-size?), and work less. It's really frustrating	
iwith him in particular because he worked so hard to achieve more	
iand earn more his whole life so that he could enjoy it later, but	
ihe was diagnosed with a death sentence nearly the day after he	
iretired. How can that not wake you up to the here and now and say,	
i"use it while you've got it"?	
i	
iI want a smaller house. Much smaller. This is my first home and	
iI got it for a ridiculous price because the housing market had	
itanked two years before and the owner had been dropping his	
iselling price ever since. It's now worth double what I paid and	
iI can't wait to sell it. It's fantastic to have a bunch of space,	
ibut we just fill it with things we don't have time to use. More BS	
ifilling it up is no help to anyone. It's also a huge burden on us	
imaintaining it and paying utilities. I don't need to work harder	
iand longer to pay for things I'm not using.	
i	
iOnce we go to Iceland I plan on renting again (if their rental	
isituation gets cleared up, that is) and eventually working up to	
ia small home. I don't want any more space than I need. If that	
imeans I have to go outside more, even better! Lowering my	
icost-of-living means I can enjoy the same options or more and	
istill lower my workload. I'm not going to be able to match my	
icurrent salary in Iceland anyway, so it all aligns. Work less,	
ilive smaller, enjoy things today instead of putting them off for	
ilater.	
