i----------------------------------------	
iSeasons	
iMarch 21st, 2018	
i----------------------------------------	
i	
iI have a pet peeve about the seasons and their start date. I've	
iwritten about this on my web blog [0] before, but the topic	
ideserves more attention on gopher. Today is March 21st, 2018, and	
iyesterday was the halfway point of Spring, not the first day.	
i	
h[0] Tomasino Blog - Seasons	URL:http://blog.tomasino.org/post/seasons/
i	
iThe equinoxes and solstices are mid-point measurements of the	
isolar seasons. The vernal equinox and autumnal equinox are the	
idates when the day and night are of equal length. This is an	
iappropriate date to count as halfway between Summer and Winter. It	
iis an appropriate date to be the mid-point of Spring or Autumn.	
iIt's logical. It's measurable.	
i	
iThe Winter Solstice, the date of the longest night, is an	
iappropriate marker for the middle of Winter. Again it makes sense.	
iThe Summer Soltice, the longest day, you know... the thing	
iliterally called "Mid-Summer" in A Mid-Summer's Night Dream. Do	
iI need to finish?	
i	
iSo what the hell, why is everyone else on Earth a big dummy	
idetermined to piss off tomasino? I think they're lazy. The big	
ifour seasonal days are easy to remember. Who remembers Imbolc or	
iBeltane or Lammas or Samhain except Wiccans and celtic cosplayers?	
iIt's easier to just summarize everything down to the four days we	
iknow and pretend they're the start of the season. We'll give the	
idecision some extra bull-shit creedence by saying it aligns better	
iwith a meteorological season (aka, Spring is fucking cold).	
iI don't buy it, though. We have days for this stuff already and	
ithey are set for a reason. Stop being lazy.	
i	
iNeed another example while I'm ranting? How about good old	
iGroundhog's day? Imbolc by another name! February 2nd, Candlemas,	
ithe first day of Spring. It's still celebrated by an esoteric	
itradition with no real purpose other than to piss off a sleepy	
irodent. We literally pull that dude out of his hole and hold him	
iup to forecast whether we're going to have "6 more weeks of	
iWinter". Here again we're talking about weather, not seasons. The	
iseason is over. You just celebrated the first day of Spring	
iwithout realizing it.	
i	
iAre you following me here? This is not some little nit-picky thing	
ithat one or two news stations screwed up but a world-wide shift.	
iIt gets me really peeved!	
i	
iEND RANT	
i	
iDo you have something like the Seasons which eats you up inside	
ithat you need to rant about on gopher? I wanna know about it so	
iI can join you in righteous anger.	
i	
iBring it on, and happy mid-spring.	
