i----------------------------------------
iOn SDF Mirrors
iMarch 11th, 2018
i----------------------------------------
i
ijynx got me thinking [0] about mirroring of content on SDF like he
idoes. I had dismissed the idea after my gophermap structural
ichanges. In my RFC completeness I am including the full tabular
istructure of every link in my gophermaps, explicitly referencing
igopher.black and port 70. In Gophernicus I could omit these and
ithe server assumed it should reference itself. Motsognir actually
idoes this as well, but I'm not coding to that server specifically.
iIt's like thinking in terms of POSIX... stick to the spec, at
ileast as much as you can.
i
0[0] jynx - On my console experiment	/users/jynx/dat/20180311.post	sdf.org	70
i
iBut that's still no excuse. I can happily mirror my gopher hole on
iSDF. Anyone reaching it will just immediately redirect to
igopher.black after they follow the first link. That's not bad at
iall.
i
iI've been playing around with manual timestamp checking on files
ias part of burrow's way of detecting if you abandoned writing
ia new post so it can cancel. That same technique could be used on
ia cron-job that pulls my gopher git repo. If my gophermap
itimestamp changes, force-touch my gopher directory for the SDF
ilistings. Hey! That's a neat idea!
i
iOkay, okay... I've moved my stuff for safety and stability, but
ithere's absolutely no harm in having a mirror there. Hell, I think
iI still have tilde.town mirroring it as well. I haven't checked in
iweeks. Yikes, I need to pop back in there.
i
i- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
i
i      I N    O T H E R    U N R E L A T E D    N E W S
i
iI changed my colorscheme on this laptop tonight. It's all related
ito my eyes and the issues I've been having lately. I'll phlog
iabout that soon
i
iBurow hit v1.3.0 tonight with the new strict-mode additions to its
ioutput. It "unformats" posts that you edit with it, and
i"reformats" them when you save. This way it's easy to write prose
ieven on an edit without having to strip all the "i" types back out
iagain temporarily.
i
iDynamic DNS is working via a little python script and the
inamesilo.com api. It's on 4 hour cron. If something ever bumps my
iIP, that should be the max I'm offline for. Power outtages are
ianother matter.
i
iGood luck to jynx on his upcoming trip. Sounds like a great time
ito focus and reset the brain. I don't have any text adventure
iideas for you except maybe zork and its kin. They're available on
iGOG if you can run dosbox. I play Quest for Glory on my linux box
ia bunch. If you want to try a different style retro game, I've got
ia great one. It's called The Last Door. There's two out so far,
ibut just pick up #1. It's a low-poly point & click (probably work
ifine on a touchscreen) mystery in the style of HP Lovecraft.
iChilling and brilliant musical score. I highly recommend it.
iDefinitely bring headphones... the sound is important to the
igameplay at parts.
i
iyargo is talking troff too. There's troff everywhere! Where is my
idamned book!? ARRRGHHhhhhhhhn
i
