i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
isensory deprivation		gopher.black	70
iMarch 16th, 2022		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iToday I spent an hour in a sensory deprivation tank for the first		gopher.black	70
itime. My wife bought me a gift certificate to a local place that		gopher.black	70
ihas the tanks and some fancy chair massages, but with the COVID		gopher.black	70
isituation as it was I was waiting to cash in. This week happens to		gopher.black	70
ibe light at work so the time finally felt right.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMy appointment was at 11:30 and I managed to show up right on		gopher.black	70
itime. The door was locked, oddly, so I knocked and was welcomed		gopher.black	70
iinside by another American transplant. He runs the shop and said		gopher.black	70
ihe was just getting in and getting another visitor set up in the		gopher.black	70
inext room. She was a very pregnant 20-something. I heard their		gopher.black	70
iconversation and recommendations for comfort. The guy knew his		gopher.black	70
istuff. It turns out his wife is also quite far along in her		gopher.black	70
ipregnancy, so they've been getting a lot of practice.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOnce it was my turn I was led into a private room and given the		gopher.black	70
itour. Here is the shower for getting clean and rinsed before		gopher.black	70
ientering the tank (just as is the custom at the pools in Iceland).		gopher.black	70
iHere is a table with towels and a spray bottle. When you are in		gopher.black	70
ithe tank if you touch your face or rub your eyes, the salt water		gopher.black	70
iwill get all over you and it's impossible to clean off without		gopher.black	70
isome help. Thus the spray bottle and the hand towel. And here are		gopher.black	70
ia pair of earplugs. They're not really necessary for the sound, as		gopher.black	70
ithe room and tank are well insulated, but they do keep the salt		gopher.black	70
iwater from going deep in your ear canal. I was sure to put those		gopher.black	70
iin right away.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFinally I met the tank itself. It was bigger than I expected,		gopher.black	70
iwhich was a welcome relief. I was a little worried about feeling		gopher.black	70
iclaustrophobic, but this gave me room to stretch out nicely. It		gopher.black	70
iwas lit from within and looked clean and inviting with a little		gopher.black	70
imotion to the water as the pumps did their thing. The lid opened		gopher.black	70
ifrom the front, by the head, much like a car's trunk. You could		gopher.black	70
istep in, squat down, and use the handle inside to pull the lid		gopher.black	70
iclosed above you. The owner of the shop recommended settling in		gopher.black	70
iwith the door ajar first, then closing it if comfortable. He said		gopher.black	70
ileaving it open to the air might make you cold.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe lights and sound are on a timer. Everything dimmed quite low		gopher.black	70
iand soothing spa sounds were barely audible in the background.		gopher.black	70
iAfter I washed and got into the tank I quickly settled into		gopher.black	70
iposition and lowered the lid. The light faded first, about five		gopher.black	70
iminutes in. Then the sounds faded out too, perhaps ten minutes		gopher.black	70
ilater. It was around this time I decided I was actually quite hot		gopher.black	70
iwith the lid closed, and the cool air would be welcome. I pushed		gopher.black	70
iit open a foot or so, and found my happy temperature. The whole		gopher.black	70
iroom was blacked out at this point, so there was no functional		gopher.black	70
idifference to the experience other than heat.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iNow that I was alone with my thoughts it was game-on. I have,		gopher.black	70
ithankfully, participated in a number of silent retreats in the		gopher.black	70
ipast. I think these have prepared me well for being alone and the		gopher.black	70
idifficulties of quieting the mind. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI can remember my very first three-day silent retreat: I arrived		gopher.black	70
ion a Friday evening and all the participants greeted each other		gopher.black	70
inormally. We had dinner with conversation, getting to know one		gopher.black	70
ianother a bit. Silence began when the meal ended. We were to		gopher.black	70
iremain in silence until the end of Mass on Sunday, at which time		gopher.black	70
iwe would have a lunch together with conversation again. That first		gopher.black	70
inight my mind was on fire with cool ideas and things I wanted to		gopher.black	70
iremember to say when silence ended. I wrote a huge amount of notes		gopher.black	70
iin my Moleskine notebook. Saturday continued that way until the		gopher.black	70
iearly afternoon. I was walking in the garden and I found a single		gopher.black	70
ileaf dangling about 10 feet below its tree, attached only from		gopher.black	70
ia single strand of a spider's web. No spider was in sight but		gopher.black	70
iI was enraptured. My whole attention went on that leaf and the		gopher.black	70
ispider silk strand. In those minutes I forgot about my notebook		gopher.black	70
iand remembering things for later. I finally started to let go of		gopher.black	70
imy rapid-paced mental dialogue and just be present. And that's		gopher.black	70
iwhen I finally met the silence, truly. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOnce I found the silence it became an old friend. I try my best to		gopher.black	70
ifind it as quickly as I can on retreats now. I generally don't		gopher.black	70
itake a notebook at all anymore, unless the retreat has some sort		gopher.black	70
iof focused agenda to work on at specific times. Instead I try to		gopher.black	70
isettle into that emptiness and just exist there.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA sensory deprivation tank is the perfect place to do that.		gopher.black	70
iI dusted off an old trick I used on an 8 day retreat a few years		gopher.black	70
iback: I thought about a book I want to write, and about a specific		gopher.black	70
icharacter. I focused my attention on that character and what makes		gopher.black	70
iher unique. What defines her, what part of her personality gets		gopher.black	70
iher into trouble? And after just a couple minutes of that focused		gopher.black	70
ithinking, not about anything that was bothering me, or about my		gopher.black	70
iactual life, I felt my attention begin to wander. And so I let it		gopher.black	70
iwander away from the book, and towards the silence. There it was.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe rest of the time passed quickly. The lights began to fade back		gopher.black	70
iup, and there was the spa sounds again. In another minute they		gopher.black	70
iwere on in full and I knew it was time to get out, wash up, and		gopher.black	70
ihead home. Washing that much salt out of my hair took a while, but		gopher.black	70
ithere was no rush. I spoke some pleasantries with the owner on my		gopher.black	70
iway out, but I was still carrying the silence with me. That's one		gopher.black	70
iof my favorite parts of retreats as well. How long can I keep the		gopher.black	70
isilence there with me, present underneath everything going on.		gopher.black	70
iSadly it seems the answer is roughly as long as I spent in silence		gopher.black	70
iin the first place. One hour gets me one more. Three days get me		gopher.black	70
ithree more. Thirty days got me a bonus month.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI love the silence. I love the peace it brings, even when I'm back		gopher.black	70
iin the thick of things.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI really enjoyed my time in the tank. I may do it again, but		gopher.black	70
iprobably not right away. They offer a monthly pass, but it doesn't		gopher.black	70
ifeel like the right fit, personally. Maybe once a quarter or twice		gopher.black	70
ia year? It's a lovely ritual, though. If you have the opportunity		gopher.black	70
ito try it out I would recommend it. Try to be at peace and let go.		gopher.black	70
iIt's surprisingly easy.		gopher.black	70
