i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
ipoisoning the well		gopher.black	70
iDecember 16th, 2019		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis week I learned that the RSS aggregator I use, tt-rss, is		gopher.black	70
ideveloped by an individual whose personal politics are at odds		gopher.black	70
iwith my own. This morning I became aware that the creator of the		gopher.black	70
itelevision show, The IT Crowd, appears to be a scumbag. If we look		gopher.black	70
iback over the last year or two it's easy to spot Chik Fil A and		gopher.black	70
iHarvey Weinstein and a hundred other cases where a person or		gopher.black	70
iorganization has become pariah. Their works are stained forever.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA number of questions came to me after considering our present		gopher.black	70
ireality:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  - Is it universal? Does the idea of individual moral judgement		gopher.black	70
i    apply the same way to all people? What about companies?		gopher.black	70
i  - Is this new? Is it a continuous development from some earlier		gopher.black	70
i    state?		gopher.black	70
i  - Is it "fair", not to the subject of the moral judgement, but		gopher.black	70
i    to the works? What about collective works where only a single		gopher.black	70
i    contributor is a problem? Does their position of authority		gopher.black	70
i    change the judgement?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's too much to go into in a gopher phlog. I'm not going to		gopher.black	70
iwrite some massive moral treatise here. There's really two bits		gopher.black	70
iI'm focused on anyway, so pitter-patter, as they say…		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iFirst is the question of large collective works, like film.		gopher.black	70
iAccording to some web page I read in passing, which queried data		gopher.black	70
ifrom the top IMDB films, the average crew on a film is about 588		gopher.black	70
imembers strong. If we assume that the moral distribution of		gopher.black	70
iindividuals on a given film is representative of the general		gopher.black	70
ipopulation (safe enough, not given a specific film) then we might		gopher.black	70
iexpect some sort of normal distribution of morality (if such		gopher.black	70
ia thing were quantifiable). If one of these individuals were to		gopher.black	70
iscore at an extreme to one degree or another it will not shift the		gopher.black	70
idistribution noticeably. The overall morality of those making this		gopher.black	70
ipiece of collective art is unchanged.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut we punish them, don't we? Many of us will boycott the movie		gopher.black	70
ibecause of what that actor said, or what the director did. We will		gopher.black	70
ispite the 587 others on a film for that one person. They have, in		gopher.black	70
ieffect, poisoned the well. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut maybe it's not about the math of morality. Maybe it's because		gopher.black	70
iwe must take action in the face of injustice. Something we		gopher.black	70
iperceive as wrong cannot be allowed to occur, even if our methods		gopher.black	70
iwill cause harm to others. That sounds silly, doesn't it? It does		gopher.black	70
ito me.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMaybe it matters more when justice would not be done without the		gopher.black	70
imasses acting in protest. If the courts won't prosecute, then the		gopher.black	70
ivoice of the consumer will blacklist them. Let capitalism rear its		gopher.black	70
ipower for justice for once, right?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iUltimately I think it's harder to let go of something we see as		gopher.black	70
iwrong than it is to ignore the damage we cause others. Collateral		gopher.black	70
idamage is a shame, but at least we got THAT guy.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo yeah, there's some moral ambiguity here in collective works,		gopher.black	70
ibut what about individual creators? Should everyone boycott		gopher.black	70
itt-rss? Should we avoid using suckless code? Stop listening to		gopher.black	70
isomebody's music? Maybe that's easier here. After all, we're not		gopher.black	70
ihurting anyone else with this sort of mob justice.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's just so many "what ifs" floating around. What if the		gopher.black	70
idespicable person created something that helps people? What if		gopher.black	70
ithey pioneered a green energy revolution? What if they found		gopher.black	70
ia disease cure? What if they make a really good software package		gopher.black	70
ifor the blind?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iYes, on the one hand it is the old debate about whether you can		gopher.black	70
iseparate art from artist. But there's the question of utility as		gopher.black	70
iwell. At what point does the good of the work outweigh the bad of		gopher.black	70
ithe individual.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis is where my head has been all morning and I'm not coming up		gopher.black	70
iwith any concrete answers. That's probably a sign that I shouldn't		gopher.black	70
iexpect a fixed set of rules to apply. In the case of films, I'll		gopher.black	70
iprobably keep seeing them. In the case of tt-rss, I will probably		gopher.black	70
ijump to another project if I find one comparable. In the case of		gopher.black	70
ithe IT Crowd, I'll continue to quote and enjoy it and probably use		gopher.black	70
ithat moment to also inform others around me that Graham Linehan as		gopher.black	70
ia shitbag. Double-win, right?		gopher.black	70
