i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
ipython virtualenv invoking without activate		gopher.black	70
iApril 26th, 2021		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI like python. I do not like python packaging. I run into the same		gopher.black	70
iproblem again and again: I want to make a useful tool like		gopher.black	70
i'burrow' that can be distributed and used by others (or myself on		gopher.black	70
iother systems). Inevitably I'll need to use other packages,		gopher.black	70
ithough, so I'll need to pip-install those. I don't want to pollute		gopher.black	70
ithe system, though, so I'd better create a virtual environment and		gopher.black	70
iinstall those there. So now I have my requirements.txt file and		gopher.black	70
ican do things inside this little container, but now what?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iDo I bundle this thing and put it in pip? Am I now expecting		gopher.black	70
isomeone else will pip install it globally to run it on their		gopher.black	70
isystem? Of course not, because everything python should be safely		gopher.black	70
istored away in a virtual environment. But I don't want them to		gopher.black	70
iwrite a program that uses my program as a library. I just want to		gopher.black	70
iinvoke it? Does that change the rules? Will my app's dependencies		gopher.black	70
ithen pollute their system?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd then I throw my hands in the air and give up and do something		gopher.black	70
ielse.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWell, recently I decided I wanted to work on a side-project on		gopher.black	70
icosmic that khuxkm started in python: an anonymous remailer that		gopher.black	70
iactually works over email. We'd gone down this path in the past		gopher.black	70
iand it almost worked. I had motivation and wanted to see it		gopher.black	70
ithrough. Immediately I knew I was about to hit that problem from		gopher.black	70
iabove, though. In fact, I was going to hit it with even more		gopher.black	70
icomplications.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSee, in order to handle incoming mail and pass it off to a script		gopher.black	70
iI was using a feature of ~/.forward that lets you do that. The		gopher.black	70
i.forward file works just like the aliases system file, but only on		gopher.black	70
ithe right-hand side of an alias definition. That means you can do		gopher.black	70
imore than just specify an email or emails to deliver the mail to,		gopher.black	70
iyou can pipe it to a script like so:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  |/home/anonhmmst/mailhandler/parse_email.py		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThat leading pipe is important. It's also important to know that		gopher.black	70
iscripts invoked this way are passed the contents of the incoming		gopher.black	70
imail, but invoked by the 'nobody' user. That's a security thing		gopher.black	70
iand for the best, but it complicated my script running.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIf I used the anonhmmst user and installed python packages for		gopher.black	70
ithis parse_email.py script at the user-level they wouldn't work		gopher.black	70
iwhen invoked by nobody. I needed to set up a virtual environment		gopher.black	70
ito get everything bundled, but I also needed a way to invoke it		gopher.black	70
iwithout having to manually activate the virtual environment first.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThe solution turned out to be pretty simple:		gopher.black	70
i  - make the python script executable		gopher.black	70
i  - point the hashbang at the virtual environment python binary		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn my case:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  #!/home/anonhmmst/mailhandler/env/bin/python3		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI had to do a bit more work on cosmic with the sudoers file to		gopher.black	70
ienable the nobody user to run some cosmic-specific scripts, but		gopher.black	70
ithe virtual-environment setup was the big take-away. It doesn't		gopher.black	70
isolve all my python packaging woes, but it fixed this one nicely.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhat about you? What do you do in these situations? Do you pip		gopher.black	70
iinstall binaries as your user without virtual environments for		gopher.black	70
iutilities or do you wrap them in a virtual environment somehow?		gopher.black	70
iHow do you distribute your own projects?		gopher.black	70
