i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
ieverything is evil		gopher.black	70
iJune 01st, 2019		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's a link on tilde.news [0] to a blog post by Nolan Lawson on		gopher.black	70
i"Tech Veganism" [1]. It is, in his summary:		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i - a preference for open-source software over proprietary software		gopher.black	70
i - a suspicion of big tech companies 		gopher.black	70
i - a high bar for privacy and security		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] tilde.news	URL:https://tilde.news
h[1] Tech Veganism	URL:https://nolanlawson.com/2019/05/31/tech-veganism/
i		gopher.black	70
iMy initial reaction was a visceral gagging at the name. I readied		gopher.black	70
imy angriest typing fingers and opened up the lobste.rs style		gopher.black	70
icomments ready to dive in as soon as I consumed this article.		gopher.black	70
iI opened it up, clicked on my Stutter [2] icon and binged it in		gopher.black	70
ia minute.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[2] Stutter	URL:https://github.com/jamestomasino/stutter
i		gopher.black	70
iWhat came out deflated me. He argues some good points early on in		gopher.black	70
ithe ways that the behavior of open source purists, security		gopher.black	70
iexperts, and digital conspiracy theorists comes across to others		gopher.black	70
iin the same ways as veganism (or crossfit). And, while the article		gopher.black	70
iloses some focus toward the end, it did a decent job of what it		gopher.black	70
iset out to do.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt got me thinking about the whole situation from a different		gopher.black	70
iperspective. For a moment I was running in place like Fred		gopher.black	70
iFlinstone [3] trying to snap an argument into place so I could		gopher.black	70
ifill in that comment box, but eventually I gave up.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[3] Flinstones Running	URL:https://www.hooktube.com/watch?v=TudMykewh_I
i		gopher.black	70
iInstead, I imagined the mid-century world with its post-war		gopher.black	70
ioptimism and renewed sense of manifest destiny in the United		gopher.black	70
iStates. In place of a territorial expansion it was an expansion of		gopher.black	70
ithe confidence of indifatigable America and its moral democracy		gopher.black	70
iand powerful innovation. You can feel it in the pride of the		gopher.black	70
inewsreels. The awe capped off with a man standing on the moon.		gopher.black	70
iProgress is perfect. Capitalism and the democratic republic,		gopher.black	70
icombined with the "cowboy" ideal and puritan ethics is the		gopher.black	70
iultimate way forward. Every child will have a better life than		gopher.black	70
itheir parent and the world will grow in all things exponentially.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd so with the invincible self-confidence of a teenage boy on		gopher.black	70
ia half-pipe, America jumped head first. Its power on the world		gopher.black	70
istage was unequaled militarily and in terms of media. Regulation		gopher.black	70
iand timidity took a back seat and we all went barrelling down the		gopher.black	70
iramp.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut the mid-century sci-fi authors taught us something else. It		gopher.black	70
ilingered in their messages, only to hit main stream pop culture		gopher.black	70
iyears later. We saw the danger of machines, of a runaway state, of		gopher.black	70
iunchecked power, of the masses deciding for all. Literature,		gopher.black	70
icomics, art, they put a spotlight on all aspects of life, not just		gopher.black	70
ithe "big dream" of a nation. They help us see the cracks. Even		gopher.black	70
ipost-war, things were not perfect by any means, as those who		gopher.black	70
isuffered outrageous oppression (and still do) can attest. They		gopher.black	70
iwere not part of that narrative. Unchecked capitalism devours		gopher.black	70
ieverything it touches, and so it did to the American economy in		gopher.black	70
ithe 70s. The counter-culture of disco, an attempt at glamour in		gopher.black	70
ithe squalid realities of life, is art screaming for help.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iHere we are three quarters of a century on from that ridiculous		gopher.black	70
ivision of a country who can do no wrong. We see those ideals		gopher.black	70
ispread far, far beyond the US boundaries. The ideas themselves are		gopher.black	70
ian identity for many, disconnected from their birthplace. Even now		gopher.black	70
iwe hear the same tripe of trickle-down economics cross the lips of		gopher.black	70
iidiots. Even now we have those who believe in their hearts that		gopher.black	70
itechnology will save us from ourselves, as if innovation could		gopher.black	70
iever outpace hubris.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThat was the daydream of thoughts that overtook me from this		gopher.black	70
ilittle article on tech veganism. And with that lense I look again		gopher.black	70
iand see something different. I don't see angry white men sitting		gopher.black	70
iat their computers bitching about Google spying on them. I see		gopher.black	70
ipeople who are walking with the rest of the world across		gopher.black	70
ia landscape of ease and luxury, but have stumbled and looked down		gopher.black	70
iand realized what we're crushing under our feet with each step.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iProgress isn't perfect.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iEverything we do has the infinite consequences that come from		gopher.black	70
ibeing a part of this insane system of reality, a piece of humanity		gopher.black	70
ias a whole, and a spec of unique life in the midst of a biosphere		gopher.black	70
ihugging an oblique spheriod tumbling through the vacuum of space		gopher.black	70
ilike mildew around a shower handle. Everything about us is messy,		gopher.black	70
igross, and complex. It's hard enough to change something		gopher.black	70
iintentionally for the good without unintended consequences		gopher.black	70
icrushing your idea of progress. And it is so much easier to do		gopher.black	70
iimmesurable damage to our world and ourselves with the reckless		gopher.black	70
iabandon of innovation for its own sake (or worse, for money).		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI think back to the optimism of the space age and the pulp view of		gopher.black	70
i"good" that it represents. It is not an objective reality, but it		gopher.black	70
ihad a presence and an effect at the time. In that way it was		gopher.black	70
i"real". Today our tech advancements promise us pleasure and ease		gopher.black	70
iand luxury at the cost of data, access, information, exposure, and		gopher.black	70
iall the other little things that seem intangible and "no big deal"		gopher.black	70
iin marketing-speak. Many, many people will take that deal. Why		gopher.black	70
inot? Why pay for TV when you can sit through ads and let the		gopher.black	70
icompany know what you like. You'll just get better targeted ads.		gopher.black	70
iWhere's the harm? Right?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhere the dewey-eyed comic view of the 40s and 50s had eyes on		gopher.black	70
ishiny rockets and travels to the moon, these days we know the		gopher.black	70
iineffible terror of an all-powerful algorithm, a machine		gopher.black	70
iintelligence, churning numbers about each of us and uncovering		gopher.black	70
isecrets we didn't know we had. We know governments use these for		gopher.black	70
itheir own aims, often against the individual. We know hackers can		gopher.black	70
iexploit this. We know that advertisers care about money, not what		gopher.black	70
iwe want to see. We know that consumerism will push us toward		gopher.black	70
ia place where we spend every dollar and borrow more to spend		gopher.black	70
iourselves into debt. We know that the world will enslave us in		gopher.black	70
ia thousand ways to keep power with those in power.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWe know, in effect, that the whole world is driven by evil		gopher.black	70
iintentions. Evil in selfishness and in dehumanization and in the		gopher.black	70
ilack of concern for future generations, environment, and the world		gopher.black	70
iin general. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iEverything is evil.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIt might not be objective reality, but it has a presence and		gopher.black	70
ieffect on everything. In that way it is our "reality". It's almost		gopher.black	70
ienough to make me accept the vegan label without cringing. Almost.		gopher.black	70
