i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
idivination		gopher.black	70
iJuly 17th, 2020		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iA few days ago I coded a shell-script version of the I Ching (Book		gopher.black	70
iof Changes), and made it accessible on Gemini [0]. In the process		gopher.black	70
iI added a note on the Gemini site quickly addressing some concerns		gopher.black	70
iover the use of digital tools for divination. It all felt rushed		gopher.black	70
iand incomplete and I think I have more to say on the subject,		gopher.black	70
iperhaps a lot more. Gemini isn't the place for that, though. This		gopher.black	70
iis definitely a gopher topic.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] I Ching Shell Script	URL:https://github.com/jamestomasino/iching
i		gopher.black	70
iI practice a number of forms of divination including consulting		gopher.black	70
ithe I Ching, tarot cards, tasseography, cleromancy (whether with		gopher.black	70
idice, dominos, or runes), and so on. There's a number of forms		gopher.black	70
iI don't practice for various reasons: horoscopy, gematria,		gopher.black	70
iextispicy (ew), ouija, augury, and oh so many more. Someone has		gopher.black	70
ifigured out a way to use just about anything for divination.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBefore we get too far into this, let me drop some dictionary magic		gopher.black	70
ion you. Here's the definition from two online dictionaries: 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  Divination: 		gopher.black	70
i  		gopher.black	70
i  1. the practice of seeking knowledge of the future or the		gopher.black	70
i     unknown by supernatural means		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
i  2. the art or practice that seeks to foresee or foretell future		gopher.black	70
i     events or discover hidden knowledge usually by the		gopher.black	70
i     interpretation of omens or by the aid of supernatural powers		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSeeking knowledge, usually hidden knowledge, by the aid of the		gopher.black	70
isupernatural. Cool. Got it?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo there are a billion forms of divination out there, but why? Do		gopher.black	70
ithey all work? Do any of them work? How do they purport to work?		gopher.black	70
iLets focus on the last bit first. How does divination work? This		gopher.black	70
iis the interesting bit for me at least.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIn cleromancy the mechanism of action is some sort of randomness.		gopher.black	70
iCleromancy is about "tossing stuff" like dice and seeing what		gopher.black	70
icomes up. Some practitioners suggest that the randomness allows		gopher.black	70
ithe supernatural to take direct action and influence the results		gopher.black	70
iof the toss. Other practitioners would say that the toss and its		gopher.black	70
irandomness is just that and not influenced by the supernatural,		gopher.black	70
ibut the querent (person seeking information) must use their		gopher.black	70
iintuition to understand the results of the toss. That type of		gopher.black	70
ipractitioner moves the supernatural action internal to the		gopher.black	70
iunconscious mind and changes its domain of action to the		gopher.black	70
iinterpretation alone. But there are still other types! Some see		gopher.black	70
ithe unconscious mind as affecting the toss itself in a sort of		gopher.black	70
iblend of the first two. Others shy away from intuition and suggest		gopher.black	70
iself-reflection and psychology allow the interpretation of any		gopher.black	70
isymbol to be helpful as a means of thinking in a new way about the		gopher.black	70
iissue.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iYeesh, that's a lot, and that's just cleromancy! But what about		gopher.black	70
ichartomancy (books & cards)? Is the mechanism of action different?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iOn the one hand, there are far more established symbols present		gopher.black	70
iin, say, a tarot card than in a rune. Consulting the I Ching or		gopher.black	70
ithe Bible likewise greatly increases the available symbols and		gopher.black	70
iinterpretations. The act itself is still governed by some sort of		gopher.black	70
irandomness, or chaotic action as I like to call it. Shuffling		gopher.black	70
icards, separating yarrow stalks, even flipping pages promotes some		gopher.black	70
isort of uncertainty and allows for the possibility of and unknown.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iDoes this unknown mean that a supernatural power is guiding the		gopher.black	70
iresult? That's a matter of faith and, ultimately, irrelevant. What		gopher.black	70
iabout the interpretation? Is that guided by a supernatural power?		gopher.black	70
iAgain, a question of faith that has no ultimate bearing on the		gopher.black	70
ivalue of divination. What‽		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iYeah, you read me correctly. I'm saying that it doesn't matter if		gopher.black	70
ithere's no supernatural involved at all or if there is. The aim of		gopher.black	70
idivination is to seek to foresee the future or discover hidden		gopher.black	70
iknowledge and divination can succeed in  both cases regardless of		gopher.black	70
ithe origin of its power.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iLets side with the pragmatic doubter practitioner for a moment and		gopher.black	70
iassume that there's no magic at work here at all. We're going to		gopher.black	70
igo through some exercise that will result in symbols ready for		gopher.black	70
iinterpretation. The process we have just taken was designed to		gopher.black	70
iorient our mind to the problem, focus upon it seriously, perhaps		gopher.black	70
ispending a significant amount of time in so doing. We are now		gopher.black	70
iasked to review and interpret these forms which have a variety of		gopher.black	70
ipossible meanings requiring we try to apply them systematically		gopher.black	70
iand in various combinations to the problem or subject. That		gopher.black	70
ithought process involves mental judo and an openness to new ideas.		gopher.black	70
iIt will inevitably bring insight and... wait for it... hidden		gopher.black	70
iknowledge. It will also undoubtedly influence future actions and		gopher.black	70
ihave a major impact on the events to come. BAM! Divined.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iNow, allow yourself to take the seat as an individual who has		gopher.black	70
ifaith in the machinations of the supernatural. Given even a hint		gopher.black	70
iof influence from that "other", the results gain significance and		gopher.black	70
itheir origins may carry more weight, but the interpretation and		gopher.black	70
iinternalization of that information is unchanged. It really		gopher.black	70
idoesn't matter.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI really enjoy the processes, especially the lengthy ones with		gopher.black	70
imuch ritual like the yarrow stalk I Ching method, or the ones that		gopher.black	70
iare inherently delicious like tasseography (reading tea leaves).		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iIf I have any advice to give on the subject it is to enter into		gopher.black	70
idivination with healthy skepticism, not to undermine the results		gopher.black	70
ibut to fully engage with them. Don't take any reading at face		gopher.black	70
ivalue or you've done yourself a disservice.		gopher.black	70
