i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iGame ideas		gopher.black	70
iJuly 25th, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's a new Kickstarter fund going called Your Best Game Ever,		gopher.black	70
iby Monte Cook [0]. He's done a ton of RPG writing in the past,		gopher.black	70
iincluding the D&D 3rd Edition DM's Guide and about a thousand		gopher.black	70
iothers. His most recent work was on Numenera, which is pretty cool		gopher.black	70
iif you haven't checked it out before. This new fund is to create		gopher.black	70
ia book which will help you run a game and a gaming group and get		gopher.black	70
ithe most out of the experience. It's not about the rules, but		gopher.black	70
irather about all the other stuff that's not in the books. Sounds		gopher.black	70
ipretty cool, right?		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
h[0] Kickstarter - Your Best Game Ever	URL:http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/montecookgames/your-best-game-ever
i		gopher.black	70
iAs I was backing that crowdfunding campaign I started thinking		gopher.black	70
iabout my own games that I've run in the past, want to run in the		gopher.black	70
ifuture and the infinite abyss of lameness that is my time NOT		gopher.black	70
iplaying an RPG with friends. Ugh, it's awful!		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI want to run a game, but I think I need a new format. My local		gopher.black	70
icrew can't manage to do an in-person game reliably, and it's		gopher.black	70
ireally not the same working online. It's too easy for the quiet		gopher.black	70
ifolks to stay quiet and the active players dominate. It's too easy		gopher.black	70
ito get lost browsing new skills and spells instead of getting into		gopher.black	70
ithe session. It's too easy to do anything other than play.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThat's the heart of the experience for me, too. The play. The role		gopher.black	70
iplay, in game, in character voices and in their heads; making		gopher.black	70
idecisions that your character would make, not that you would.		gopher.black	70
iI miss that part terribly, even in the games I'm playing now.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo I was thinking about running something different. Screw the		gopher.black	70
isystem. Screw all the rules. Screw everything that isn't the		gopher.black	70
irole-playing around a table. When I first started RPGs seriously		gopher.black	70
iit was in a setting like that, with my next door neighbor. We		gopher.black	70
inever bothered to crack a book or worry about skill points or		gopher.black	70
ilevels. We let the character explore and become someone new, and		gopher.black	70
itold the story together. I would describe my actions and he would		gopher.black	70
idescribe the outcome. Battles weren't about hitpoints. They were		gopher.black	70
iabout good tactics and planning.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iI also don't want to worry about telling an infinitely open-ended		gopher.black	70
istory. This game is not going to be a richly created world that's		gopher.black	70
ifree to explore. It will have a setting that hooks the players		gopher.black	70
ifrom the start and pulls them along the adventure. They will		gopher.black	70
ichange the outcomes, they will change the world, but not by		gopher.black	70
igalavanting off to the next town on a whim. I'm thinking the		gopher.black	70
isetting won't even have another town! I'm thinking of something		gopher.black	70
iotherworldly with a mist of unknown descending upon a remote		gopher.black	70
ihamlet. Adventure is survival in the face of mystery. 		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iAnd what fun it will be to create a real mystery, or series of		gopher.black	70
imysteries, for the characters to figure out and explore. If my		gopher.black	70
iplotting works it will take planning, notes, and active work on		gopher.black	70
ithe their part to figure things out in time. "In time for what?"		gopher.black	70
iyou ask? Well, that's part of the stakes! In this case, time will		gopher.black	70
ibe a major factor in survival, and a major limitation in the		gopher.black	70
ichoice of action.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iYes yes... lots of plans coming to me. I'll need to start writing		gopher.black	70
iit all out, mapping out all the ideas, and then find the right		gopher.black	70
igroup to explore it with me. Hopefully I can run this one soon.		gopher.black	70
iI really miss role playing.		gopher.black	70
