i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
iMastoconflict		gopher.black	70
iJune 02nd, 2018		gopher.black	70
i----------------------------------------		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMastodon is having a little tiff right now over the introduction		gopher.black	70
iof a new feature: trending hashtags. As the project maintainer		gopher.black	70
iputs it, it has been the most requested feature addition for over		gopher.black	70
ia year. When it rolled out, though, it was met with widespread		gopher.black	70
icriticism and, in many cases, open hostility. The rebuttals back		gopher.black	70
iand forth quickly escalated and became personal. Pretty much		gopher.black	70
ieveryone involved is greatly unhappy, regardless of their position		gopher.black	70
ion the issue.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iMeanwhile, I'm sitting back here thinking to myself, "democracy in		gopher.black	70
iaction." A collective developed and idea with their voices (the		gopher.black	70
iaddition of trending hashtags). When that idea was implemented,		gopher.black	70
iother collectives disagreed. They weren't aware of its		gopher.black	70
idevelopment, they argue. It is unsafe and can be used for evil. It		gopher.black	70
iwill target groups who are often targets and make Mastodon unsafe		gopher.black	70
ior unwelcoming.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThere's one person in charge of the project. He must be the		gopher.black	70
iproblem. If it weren't for him, surely the issue would be put to		gopher.black	70
irest. It's as simple as that, because a "pure" democracy will		gopher.black	70
ialways work things out. This is an example of corruption of the		gopher.black	70
iperfect, federated state.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSound familiar? Yeah, I thought so. The issue isn't having		gopher.black	70
ia single leader. The issue is that groups of people have different		gopher.black	70
iwants and needs. This is inherent to any sized group of people		gopher.black	70
igreater than one. You cannot make them all equally happy. You		gopher.black	70
icannot serve every single use case simultaneously. The utopia of		gopher.black	70
idemocracy does not exist, just as it does not exist for communism,		gopher.black	70
ior socialism, or even monarchy.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iSo what do we do? We use our brains. We make decisions that help		gopher.black	70
ias many as we can. We use our morals and make decisions that hurt		gopher.black	70
ias few as possible. We don't cross lines that shouldn't be		gopher.black	70
icrossed. We listen to the words of the suffering and try to ease		gopher.black	70
ithat suffering. We say to those with excess, "you have excess.		gopher.black	70
iYour priorities are lower than those who need help."		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iThis is all but impossible in systems that favor group-think. The		gopher.black	70
ipower in those systems comes from those who can manipulate the		gopher.black	70
isystem. Who can speak loudest is often the one with the most		gopher.black	70
imoney. The wider the spread of power, the more this systematic		gopher.black	70
iinfluence becomes absolute. It can devolve to cult of personality		gopher.black	70
ieventually. The key to the recipe is broad reach of voice.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iWhat is the countermeasure? Strong-willed leaders who can champion		gopher.black	70
ithe "right" decisions. What makes those decisions right? The		gopher.black	70
ithings I listed above. What ensures a leader will execute those		gopher.black	70
idecisions and not others? That depends on your system. In		gopher.black	70
igovernment, there's not much, though a constitutional system can		gopher.black	70
ihelp balance it. It's easy to slide into despotism. In social		gopher.black	70
isystems like open source projects, the answer is the freedom to		gopher.black	70
imove on. The system is open source and the protocol can work with		gopher.black	70
iother projects. Mastodon can be forked and formed into something		gopher.black	70
ielse by others with a different set of principles. If the current		gopher.black	70
ileader of the project does not implement policy (in the form of		gopher.black	70
isoftware features) that reflects the needs of the people, that's		gopher.black	70
ithe easiest path to take. No bloodshed, just moving on and		gopher.black	70
ibuilding something new.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
iBut back to the question of trending hashtags themselves. Are they		gopher.black	70
ia good idea? Probably not, at least in the way they've been		gopher.black	70
iimplemented so far. There's been a lot of valid points about how		gopher.black	70
ibad actors already abuse similar systems in other networks.		gopher.black	70
iThere's nothing currently in place to prevent that, and the		gopher.black	70
idistributed nature of the network makes stopping those attacks		gopher.black	70
ieven harder than on Twitter. There have been very good ideas to		gopher.black	70
itweak the feature to avoid the abuse. Ultimately it should come		gopher.black	70
idown to a cost/benefit analysis. Unfortunately it's more likely to		gopher.black	70
icome down to the loudest screamers. But that's democracy.		gopher.black	70
i		gopher.black	70
