 ----------------------------------------
 Burrow evolves
 March 06th, 2018
 ----------------------------------------
 
 Big thanks to christyotwisty [0] for daring to be the first person
 to dive into the world of burrow with me. It was fun getting her
 up and running and I picked up a few todo items as a result. She's
 using burrow on the SDF cluster, which comes with a couple
 complications. Still, I think we managed to get everything running
 pretty quickly.
 
 Some notes from the experience:
 
   SDF Specific Stuff
 
   - SDF umask settings are weird by default. Had to change those
     to 022 to get her posts to show up automatically.
 
   - PATH variables are also lacking by default. I carry my
     dotfiles with me from system to system so I hadn't noticed. We
     couldn't run "source" at one point because of it, though.
 
   Burrow Specific Stuff
 
   - Christy wants to add categories to her phlog. My phlog action
     in burrow currently assumes a single directory and posts over
     time or alphabetically (if you're weird). I'll have to think
     about how best to add category support, or maybe tags? Hmm...
 
   - There were some pain points in updating burrow when not
     cloning the repo and using git commands. This led me to add a
     new action to burrow: update-burrow.
 
     "burrow update-burrow" will attempt to auto-update the
     application. If you are running it from a local folder that is
     a git repo, it'll pull the latest version of the repo. If you
     have it in a local non-repo folder it will attempt to use cURL
     to update each of the files in that directory that start with
     "burrow" (the app, man page, and bash-completion). If you have
     installed the app with "sudo make install" you'll need to run
     "sudo burrow update-burrow" to update the app. It will not
     update the man page or bash-completion, though... just the
     app. If it gets a lot of use I may try to make it smarter and
     update more, but for now it's a good-enough feature.
 
     Oh, since it's sorta dangerous (as in it could break your
     burrow install) I prompt for confirmation on this one.
 
   - We needed to update the configuration file a bunch while
     getting started. Remembering where that is can be confusing
     for new users so I added another action: edit-config.
 
     "burrow edit-config" will open up your configuration file. If
     you don't have one it spits out a warning for now. I'll
     probably have that prompt to create one instead in the future.
     Perhaps that would be a good addition when I add the burrow
     menu interface. For now, good enough.
 
 Thanks again to christyotwisty. I'm looking forward to more phlog
 posts from you.
 
1[0] christyotwisty	/users/christyotwisty/phlog	sdf.org	70

